
Humphrey Baker, the Elder, the Immigrant
We have to give thanks to Norman L Baker, Delaplane, Fauquier County, VA who has done  research on Humphrey Baker only to find out he was not his DNA ancestor.  Norman has been very helpful and we want to let him know we appreciate his sharing his research information.
This website is dedicated to our ancestor Humphrey Baker who was born & baptized on May 4th, 1713 in Stourbridge, Worcester, England. Humphrey's baptism is recorded in Old Swinford Parish church records, his parents were William & Elizabeth (Rogers) Baker.  Humphrey left home at 16 years of age and signed on as an indentured servant giving his age as 18 on December 29, 1729.  Humphrey left by way of London for the American colonies, his destination Maryland, his term of indenture was for for 6 years.  Humphrey signed his name in his own hand.
6.  Robert Baker was born 17 January 1754.  Robert Baker fought in the Revolutionary War.  He later became a Methodist minister and, with his family, was instrumental in exploring new territories in VA, TN, KY and MO.  Robert Baker served in many battles including as a seargent the Battle of Kings Mountain (or King's Mountain.), where he was wounded in his leg. He died in Montgomery Co, MO 6 August 1834.  A note must be made that many have incorrect information about Rev. Robert Baker on their web sites.  DNA has proven his was the son of Humphrey Baker.  This family line on the site is correct. See full transcribed copy of Robert Baker's original R/W Pension application.
Humphrey and Ann Baker had the following children
1. Thomas Baker was born about 1737, location unknown, and died September 29, 1814, in Estill Co., Kentucky.  Thomas made his will the day before he died, listing children:  Jacob Baker; the heirs of Joseph Baker; Humphrey Baker; William Baker; the heirs of Thomas Baker Jr.; and daughters, Betsy Nix, Polly Bell, Sally Hubbard, and Caty Baker.  At this time it is unknown who the wife or wives of Thomas Baker were.
5. Francis Baker  was born before 1754.  He had adjoining land NW of Humphrey's, and we know Humphrey's son George had adjacent property NE of Humphrey's, later to be called McCall's Gap
About 2003 the Baker DNA study began to open up doors for many Baker researchers who were seeking to learn more about their Baker ancestry.  There was much information on the internet that lead people in circles regarding their family.   A small group of people were starting to DNA match without knowing each other existed before this time.  Bits and pieces started falling together.  Many missing pieces were beginning to go together and lead to Humphrey Baker.   We believe he would be proud of the extensive research his descendants have done since 2003.

The information on the Internet states he married Ann Goldman about 1736.  However we have no documentation of Ann being a Goldman.  Humphrey and Ann Baker had their first son Thomas about 1737.  About that time Humphrey and his family joined a group of settlers in Orange Co, VA.  About 1752 Humphrey Baker's settlement was the most western of the Virginia frontier.  January 17, 1754 Humphrey and Ann had their son, Robert Baker.  It cannot be proven, but it is thought that he may have been the first white child born on the extreme Virginia frontier which would become Washington Co, VA
3. John Baker  was born about 1740-1745. He was a soldier in Dunmore's War of 1774 from Fincastle Co. in Capt. William Campbell Company. He was listed on the Baker settlement records in 1772 with his father, and brothers, Thomas, Robert, and George.
7. Alexander Baker was born before 1761 and resided in Washington Co,  VA until 1786. He was on the 1782, 1783, 1785 & 1786 census of Washington Co. VA along with our elder Humphrey Baker
2. Mary Baker was born about 1739.  She was wounded in the Shawnee Indian attack of 1755 and survived.
4. George Baker  was born between 1740-1750 and was a soldier in Dunmore's War of 1774 from Fincastle Co, VA in Lt. William Edmundson's Company.   He had adjacent property to Humphrey in Washington Co,VA and later resided in Campbell Co, TN on Jellico Creek.
Humphrey Baker's descendants are very proud of their ancestor.  We hope you will see why we want to honor him and his achievements in developing this Country