
(Author's note: Baker
         is correct. As the recently released Bear Family box set
         illustratesthe August 18, 1970 session, long thought
         to be unreleased Dino tracks are actually Baker's demos for
         Dean.)
Knight also has eight BMI
         "Citation of Achievement" awards to his credit.
Their most popular single,
         "Bring My Cadillac Back," was written by Baker and sold a
         reported 40,000 copies in two weeks. However, executives
         felt it was a free commercial for Caddys so it was taken off
         the air. Subsequent releases didn't fare any better, and
         Baker soon found himself back to square one.
After relocating to Los
         Angeles for a movie role that never materialized, Baker
         admits he had less than a dollar to his name when "destiny"
         arrived in the form of a teenage idol.
"The final tune of yours
         that Dean recorded was 'The Right Kind Of
         Woman.'"
"'That Old Time Feelin'
         and 'Not Enough Indians' were both on the 'Gentle On My
         Mind' album."
"Bowen would have to pay for
         double sessions for everybody, but it worked. Dean never
         gave more than two or three takes. He'd just lay it right
         down. It wasn't like most other sessions where you hear the
         arrangement on the spot and the singer gets used to it and
         then they all do it together. Since the band was already
         rehearsed, that was a big plus for everybody.
"He was always very nice to
         me. I never saw him the slightest bit inebriated. He was
         always dressed immaculately; like he stepped off a magazine
         ad or something. And he had these loafer-like shoes, kinda
         like slippers. They were black velvet with a gold, red, and
         black crest on them. And I was really impressed with his
         Aston-Martin; they were way up there cost-wise, even in
         those days. He was really one hell of a guy."
"I was in a Sherman Oaks
         pool hall one afternoon, and I was kinda bemoaning problems
         with my marriage not working out. Some of it was because I
         worked at night. Anyway, I walked out of the pool hall, and
         there was this beautiful girl riding in a car. And she just
         craned her neck all the way around to look at me like she
         just saw an ice cream sundae or something! And I said, 'Good
         Lord, somewhere there's a someone for everyone; I know
         it!'"
"According to the Warner
         Brothers Archives, Dean also recorded two of your songs at
         Hollywood Sound that were never released. What can you tell
         me about 'Do You Think It's Time?'"
"I think 'Feelin' was the
         best song of mine that Dean recorded; he liked it, too. I
         was at the session, and (arranger) Ernie (Freeman) put these
         horn licks after each line (sings the cliched horn part) and
         I just thought, 'Oh, man, this is ruining it.' If he could
         only have put some nice Floyd Cramer-type piano (fills) in
         there instead of those horns. You know, not to 'ham it up.'
         I was just cringing, but I couldn't say anything. I really
         think the song would've had some notoriety if it was done
         without the horn licks. But, Ernie was a great arranger.
         That's just my own thoughts on that one. And 'Not Enough
         Indians' was definitely about my marriage. Dean got a kick
         out of that song. You could tell when he was singing it.
         That ('war whoop' at the end of the song) was an original ad
         lib on Dean's part."
A mutual friend introduced
         Baker to Ricky Nelson and the rest, as they say, is part of
         music history.
"'A Place In The Shade'
         reminded me a lot of 'Bumming Around.'"
Ricky Nelson would go on to
         record 20 more Baker Knight originals including the top ten
         hits "Never Be Anyone Else But You" and Sweeter Than
         You."
"I think a lot of the songs
         I wrote around this time were about my marriage not working
         out. It just wasn't the most pleasant thing for either one
         of us; we just weren't cut out for each other. But we have a
         beautiful daughter and still talk and get along to this
         day."
"Well it had the double
         meaning of 'piece' ('peace') when I did it, but I wrote it
         as 'piece.' I can't remember any specific incident. But as a
         writer, you've always got to have your antennae up. 'If You
         Ever Get Around To Loving Me' was one of my favorites; it
         was a warm song. And on 'The Sneaky Little Side Of Me' I was
         just trying to work into his personality and write something
         that he might like. He had done a couple other things kinda
         like that, you know, 'playing the field.' I thought that
         there might be a sneaky side of him, who knows?
         (laughter)"
"I remember Bowen would get
         out there right in the middle of the room and and (slam his
         foot on the floor for the downbeat and count) 'One! Two!
         Three!' I used to get a kick out of that. He'd shake that
         whole damn orchestra up in no time!"
"The Next two songs of
         yours that Dean recorded were 'One Lonely Boy' and 'Nobody's
         Baby Again."
Last August 28th,
         I had the pleasure of speaking with Baker Knight via
         telephone from his home in Alabama. He was more than eager
         to share anecdotes about some of the songs he wrote for Dean
         Martin as well as personal insights into the man himself. I
         began by asking him how he started writing songs for
         Dino.
Following his stint in the
         service, Baker attended the University of Alabama as well as
         an art school in Birmingham, and became a technical
         illustrator and draftsman.
Over the course of his
         career, Baker has received two "Million Performance Award"
         certifications from BMI (Broadcast Music Incorporated) for
         "Lonesome Town," and "Never Be Anyone Else But You," while
         "The Wonder Of You" recently received certification for two
         million performances!
"You wrote three tracks
         on Dean's 'I Take A Lot Of Pride In What I Am' LP. 'One Cup
         Of Happiness (And One Piece Of Mind)' was spelled 'piece' on
         the record jacket, but 'peace' on both the 45 and album
         labels. Which one is 'correct,' and also was the song based
         on any particular event in your life?"
"At the time, he was into
         country-type stuff and we were trying to come up with
         something that might be considered in that vein. I think
         that's why I came up with that one. You know (humorist)
         George Grizzard wrote a book titled 'If I ever Get Back To
         Georgia I'm Gonna Nail My Feet To The Ground.' He liked one
         of my other songs and wrote about it a couple of times in
         his column, so I think he got the title for his book from
         that song."
Although Dean Martin fans
         might not instantly recognize the name "Baker Knight," they
         certainly know the songs he's written. Such Dino hits as
         "Somewhere There's A Someone" and "Not Enough Indians" as
         well as the classic ballads "That Old Time Feelin" and "If
         You Ever Get Around To Loving Me" all came from the pen of
         Baker Knight.
In recent years, "Lonesome
         Town" was featured in a memorable television commercial for
         a soft drink, heard in several major motion pictures, and
         recorded by Paul McCartney on his 1999 album "Run Devil
         Run."
Among the standout tracks
         are the ballads, "I Can't Leave You (Even Though You're
         Gone)," "You're the Only One (That I Still Look For In A
         Crowd)," and a humorous commentary on so-called
         "technological advancements" called "The Computer Is
         Down."
"Dean recorded 'If I Ever
         Get Back To Georgia' on the 'Happiness Is Dean Martin'
         album"
"How About 'I Can
         Remember?'"
"Of all the songs I wrote
         for him, I thought that was the biggest clunker. The night
         that was recorded, Dean had agreed to let some people come
         in to the studio and watch him. There was sort of an
         audience there; my wife, people from Bowen's office, and
         people that I knew. And Dean was having a little trouble
         'getting' the song. And I'm just sitting over there sweating
         'cause I knew that the song wasn't that good. So, Bowen went
         over and straightened out whatever problem it was that Dean
         was having with it. He (Bowen) was just about to 'can' it,
         and I think they didn't because some of the people there had
         come to cheer me on. I think Bowen was really trying to give
         me a helping hand. But I still have to 'pull the covers over
         my head' when I hear that song."
"Oh, that was one of my
         favorite tunes. I think I submitted those songs for him. But
         I'm really skeptical about that session information. I think
         they (the Warner Brothers archives) might've gotten some of
         the demos that I did for Dean mixed up with his actual
         recordings."
Baker played a few of his
         songs for Nelson, including the melancholy ballad "Lonesome
         Town." Less than six months later, in November 1958, it
         reached Billboard's Top Ten as did its flip side, "I got A
         Feeling," another Knight tune.
"You mentioned that you
         attended Dean's recording sessions. What were they
         like?"
Special thanks to Dean
         Martin historian and author, John Chintala.
These songs (along with his
         newest CD, "Music is My Woman," and his first
         all-instrumental CD, "Music for Romantic Dreamers")
         illustrate that after 40-plus years in the business, Knight
         still has his gift of melody and talented way with words.
         Baker Knight's CD is available through his website as well
         as on Amazon.com.
He was born Thomas Baker
         Knight, Jr. in Birmingham, Alabama on the Fourth of July in
         1933. After graduating high school, Baker served 3 years in
         the Air Force where he learned to play the
         guitar.
"Finally, is there
         anything else about working with Dean that you'd like to
         mention?"
In addition to his success
         as a songwriter, Baker Knight's personal life has been
         blessed with two children. His daughter, Tuesday Lynn
         Knight, is perhaps best known for her lead role as Kristen
         Parker in the horror flick "Nightmare On Elm Street 4,"
         while his son, Thomas Baker Knight III, is a doctor of
         Veterinary medicine and an award-winning taxidermist who
         resides in Florida.
"Well, I remember the song
         (sings 'I think it's time we try again'). Yeah, that
         was a good one."
During the Bicentennial
         Year, Dave and Sugar had a number three country hit with
         Baker's "I'm Gonna Love you," and Mickey Gilley's version of
         Knight's "Don't The Girls All Get Prettier At Closing Time"
         topped the country charts and won the Academy of Country
         Music's "Song Of The Year" award.
Last year, Baker released
         his first-ever solo CD, "The Way I Hear It," which contains
         twelve songs that he's written during the past decade, plus
         his own interpretation of "Lonesome Town." Baker sang every
         vocal part, produced, arranged, and engineered this labor of
         love that took nearly three years to complete.
"Yeah, that was kinda my
         idea. I loved the way Dean sang; he really enjoyed singing,
         you could tell. You know, he didn't really care for people
         who got up there and tried to make every note clear and
         perfect. So, I just tried to get into his groove as well as
         I could."
In 1985 Baker contracted
         infectious mononucleosis for the second time as an adult. It
         progressed into what is now termed the Chronic
         Fatigue/Fibromyalgia Syndrome. Although this illness greatly
         limited Knight's activities, including his ability to record
         in commercial studios, he had a small facility built in his
         house and continued writing and recording songs.
On January 11, 1966, Dean
         Martin cut his classic rendition of Baker's "Somewhere
         There's A Someone," the first of eleven Knight compositions
         than Dino would record over the next six years.
But when Elvis Presley took
         the music industry by storm in 1956, Baker dusted off his
         guitar, formed a rock band with several musician friends,
         and "Baker Knight and the Knightmares" was born.
In 1970, Baker's original
         rock and roll inspiration, Elvis Presley, released Knight's
         "The Wonder Of You," which reached the summit of the easy
         listening chart and also went top ten on Billboard's Hot
         100.
Special Thanks to Baker
         Knight, who's incredible talent continues to brighten our
         lives everyday!
"Dean was really a pro. It
         only took him two days to record an album. In the afternoon,
         Bowen would bring the band in. And the orchestra and
         background singers would go down every song he was gonna
         record that night. So they would have it pretty well
         polished and ready to go before Dean ever walked in. He'd
         come in about eight at night and park his Aston-Martin in
         front of the door. He'd do one or two takes and he was out
         of there! It was a very smart way to record.