
The 
reason she had to petition the General Court to grant her a license to keep a 
public house is supposed to be that the Selectmen of the town refused to grant 
it because they favored the proprietors of the old Dover Hotel. You see, the 
officials of Dover one hundred and seventy years ago were not so much superior 
to those of the modern city; they were afraid Mrs. Baker would hurt the business 
of old resident. But the General Court gave her the required license and she 
kept a first class old-fashioned tavern.
By 
John Scales

They 
lived awhile at Mendon, and next at Newport, Rhode Island. On account of the 
high standing of Captain Baker and his wife, the general court of Massachusetts 
very generously aided them to help them recover their fortunes. The Court was 
furthermore inclined to do this as Captain Baker’s health had given out so that 
he could not do any hard work that required manual exertion. The Court granted 
Christine 500 acres of  valuable land in York County, Maine. She sold this land 
for a handsome sum of money with which she built a house in Dover to which they 
removed in 1734.
In 
1717 they removed from Deerfield to Brookfield where they resided on their farm 
until 1732. In 1718 she made a trip to Canada with the object in view of getting 
her French children and bringing them to New England. Her efforts were 
unsuccessful. The Romish priests would not permit her to see them, much less 
bring them away; on the other hand, they tried to persuade her to stay there. 
She would not listen to them and so returned grieved in heart, but determined in 
spirit. The women are few who could have endured what she did and not yield to 
the wily talk of the priests.
This 
historical essay is provided free to all readers as an educational service. It 
may not be reproduced on any website, list, bulletin board, or in print without 
the permission of the Dover Public Library. Links to the Dover Public Library 
homepage or a specific article's URL are permissible.

In 
1719 Capt. Baker was elected Representative at the General Court of 
Massachusetts by the freemen of Brookfield, being the first to serve that town. 
He served his town in that and various capacities, honorably and ably during the 
next ten years. It was in this town that most of their children were born; one 
of whom became one of Dover’s most distinguished men, Col. Otis Baker.
Massachusetts sent a commission to Canada in 1714 to arrange for ransoming the 
English prisoners there; Major John Stoddard being at the head of it and Captain 
Thomas Baker a member- being famous now from his leadership of the Indian 
campaign in the White Mountain region, in which he secured the scalp of the 
famous Indian Sachem, Wattanummom, and by the deed perpetuated his name forever 
in Baker River which joins the Pemegewasstt north of Plymouth, New Hampshire. It 
was near the junction of these rivers that the battle with the Indians took 
place. Moreover, besides, having the river named for him, the General Court of 
Massachusetts gave Baker a reward of £20, summa cum laude.
In 
Montreal she was placed in a nunnery and educated in the Romish faith, until she 
was 15 years old. They tried to induce her to become a nun and take the veils of 
the church, but she would not be persuaded; then they compelled her to marry a 
Frenchman, named La Beau, June 14, 1707. the recode of her marriage is on file 
in Montreal. As the education of women went, she was well-educated. She and her 
husband lived together about 7 years and then he died, leaving her with two or 
three children.
Thomas Baker returned home and, in time, became a Captain, and won fame in the 
public service. Christine remained in Canada and in the course of seven years 
became the mother of three children and a handsome widow of twenty-five years. 
Then it came to pass that Thomas and Christine met again and under circumstances 
entirely difference from those under which they had parted in 1701.
There 
ought to be a marker placed on the brick block at the corner of Silver Street 
and Central Avenue, designating that as the spot where Christine Otis Baker kept 
a tavern.
Christine died February 23, 1773, aged 85 years, and her remains were interred 
in the Col. Baker burial lot on Pine Hill. I know not whether the spot can now 
be found; be that as it may, a marker of some kind ought to be placed near the 
spot- if not on her grave, so that future generations may know and honor the 
spot.
About 
this time in the negotiation, Capt. Baker was ordered by Major Stoddard to 
return to Boston and report progress and ask for further instructions. He 
attended to these duties and returned. The French continued as obstinate as ever 
in their refusal to let the captives go. The Caption and the widow held a 
council of war; she decided to leave her children and all her property, except 
her wearing apparel and what she could carry in her hands. They secretly 
embarked on a boat and started on the voyage to Quebec, where Major Stoddard and 
other Commissioners were then stationed, Just imagine that trip of 160 miles in 
an ordinary boat! Talk about romance! Why romance pales before the true story of 
the heroism of this woman who so loved Old Dover which she had seen only as a 
babe, and so loved the gallant captain, that she forsook all and trusted her 
life and her fortune to his care, It is easy enough to look back over 175 years, 
but what a struggle it must have been for her to look ahead sixty years.
From 
Boston she accompanied the Captain to Deerfield, and good Parson Stoddard took 
her in hand and soon made a good protestant of her. He rebaptized her with her 
baby name Margaret, and took her into the church.
This 
house stood at the corner of Silver Street and Central  Avenue, where now is the 
brick block. After she had built and furnished it, she petitioned the general 
court of New Hampshire for a license to keep a public house, which petition can 
be found in the unpublished Provincial Papers of New Hampshire. Here she kept a 
public house for many years, and prospered in her business affairs, although her 
husband was an invalid all the rest of his years, until his death in 1753 while 
on a visit to friends in Roxbury, Massachusetts. The record says he died of “the 
lethargy”, which I supposed the doctors in the twentieth century would call 
apoplexy.
In 
1732 they sold their Brookfield property, which was a comfortable estate to a 
speculator, who in some way cheated them out of the whole amount of the sale, 
and left Capt. Baker and his family in very straightened circumstances.
May 
11, 1735 she united with the First Church, Parson Cushing being pastor. She 
remained a devout member of this organization to the end of her life; during her 
last few years she was an invalid, but all her wants were kindly administered to 
by her son Col. Otis Baker and his family, Rev. Dr. Belknap, who was then pastor 
gave her that spiritual consolation which her four score years must have made 
her greatly enjoy; and when she closed her eyelids forever at four score and 
five, he performed the last sad rites over her remains.
Captain Baker, with the rest of the Commissioners, was in Montreal in March 
1714; they met the prisoners and the officials and commenced negotiations. It 
does not come within the scope of my paper to speak further of the negotiations 
than to say that Christine Otis Le Beau then and there met Captain Thomas Baker. 
She was a handsome widow of twenty-five yeas in the bloom of health, sparkling 
with wit and womanly attractions; he was a bachelor a few years older- tall, 
stalwart, and handsome in his military bearing. After they met and exchanged the 
usual formalities of such and occasion, she resolved in her own mind to return 
to New England; he resolved in his mind to rescue that handsome widow from the 
thralls of popery and the hated and detested Frenchmen.
Her 
record in Dover is of the best. Her house was a model of neatness, comfort and 
good cooking. When the Royal Governors passed through Dover they honored 
themselves by calling at her tavern; they always left with a feeling of good 
cheer and the highest respect for their hostess.
They 
were married in 1715 and set up housekeeping and farming in Deerfield; they 
remained there two years, leading a peaceful, quiet and happy life. Their first 
child was born June 5, 1716; in due time Parson Stoddard christened it 
Christine, having previously baptized the mother by her baby name of Margaret.
Thus 
matters stood for awhile; negotiations made slow progress. The French would not 
consent for her to go; if she went, she must leave her children and lose all of 
her property. She attempted to smuggle her personal property into a boat to 
carry them to Quebec- the French priests discovered her work and took everything 
from the boat.
Her 
son, Col. Otis Baker, lived in a house that he built several years before the 
Revolution where the Whidden house now stands at the corner of Silver and 
Atkinson streets. Of course, then Atkinson Street did not exist and Silver 
Street was simply the Barrington Road. It was in this house that Christine Baker 
passed her old age; Dr. Belknap was her next door neighbor, living where now is 
the Belknap School House.
Christine Otis, who married Capt. Thomas Baker of Deerfield, Massachusetts in 
1715, was born in Dover March 1689 in her father’s garrisoned house which stood 
on the north side of where is now Milk Street, about half way between Central 
Avenue and Mt. Vernon Street. She was the daughter of Richard Otis Esq. and his 
second wife, Grizel Warren, daughter of James and Margaret Warren of Kittery, 
Maine. The Otises and Warrens have an excellent ancestral record but I will not 
stop to give it here. When her father’s garrison was burned and he was killed on 
June 28, 1689, Christine was an infant and was taken prisoner with her mother to 
Canada by the Indians, as were also her half sister Rose, and her half brothers 
Stephen and John (October 15, 1693). Christine’s mother having been converted to 
the Romish faith was married to a Frenchman named Philip Robitaile and never 
returned to New England, dying in Montreal at the great age of 90 years. Her 
daughter had been baptized in the First Church at Dover by the pastor Rev. John 
Pike, as Margaret Otis, but when her mother joined the Roman Catholic Church and 
married a Frenchman, the priest rebaptized the daughter and gave her the name 
Christine, which name she retained to the end of her life, although good Parson 
Stoddard of Dover baptized her again when she returned and married Capt. Thomas 
Baker in 1715 and gave her the old name Margaret.
Several members of this Society are relatives of her; all of the Baker family in 
Dover are her descendants. Her career as a whole is undoubtedly the most 
remarkable of any Dover woman previous to the Revolution. Dover People in the 
past have been inclined to make too little account of heir heroes and heroines, 
while they looked up to those in Massachusetts because great writers and 
lecturers and Boston newspapers have for a hundred years continually talked 
about them and their great deeds. Even the heroine Mrs. Baker is rarely spoken 
of by Massachusetts writers as a Dover woman, though forty years of her life 
were passed here; and here her distinguished son and grandson lived, and their 
worthy descendants.
In 
1727, Christine received a letter from the prelate who had been her priest in 
Canada, in which he urged her to return there and reunited with the Romish 
Church, presenting many theological reasons why he thought she ought to do so.
The 
first that she saw of Thomas Baker was in 1707, the year she married the 
Frenchman. Baker had been brought to Montreal a prisoner from Deerfield, 
Massachusetts. He was a frisky young fellow and tried to escape; the guard 
caught him and he was about to be shot, a Frenchman intervened and paid a 
suitable ransom to save his life and permit him to return to his home in 
Massachusetts. Somehow during the affair- which of course, made a great 
commotion among the inhabitants, both French and English- Christine Otis Le Beau 
made the acquaintance of the young man and gave him her sympathy and probably 
expressed her admiration for his courage in attempting to escape. It may have 
been her husband who paid the sum for Baker, a ransom. Anyway, they became close 
friends then and did not forget it in the seven years that followed.
Major 
Stoddard chronicles their arrival at Quebec in the summer of 1714; later they 
sailed with others for Boston, where they arrived 21 September of that year.
The 
townspeople became interested in her welfare and enthusiastic in the praise of 
her noble qualities. December 14, 1714, the town granted her a valuable lot of 
land on the condition that she marry Capt. Thomas Baker. She accepted the land 
and the conditions.
authorities in Massachusetts, as was also his wife.
Christine Otis Baker
Her 
husband, Capt. Thomas Baker, seems not to have taken an active part in public 
affairs after he came to Dover. He was broken in health before coming here, and 
appears to have been an invalid during the nearly twenty years he lived here, 
coming in 1734 and dying in 1753. He assisted his wife in running the tavern, 
but from the first it was her tavern, not his. His record during his 
vigorous years is that of an active and honorable man and he was held in high 
esteem by the
Instead of returning to Canada, she turned the letter over to Gov. Burnet and he 
wrote an elaborate answer to the theological statements of the priest; both the 
letter and the Governor’s answer are in print in the Massachusetts archives of 
that period. The Governor had the best of the argument, as you all can see by 
reading the letter and the answer. The Kanuc priest never ventured a reply, nor 
made further endeavors to get her back to Canada.