
It started
                  climbing the charts, selling 40,000 records in just
                  two weeks. But the song was removed from the radio
                  play lists because the then "powers that be" felt
                  it was a free commercial for
                  Cadillac.
Baker, who
                  lived in his hometown of Birmingham, Alabama, is
                  survived by his daughter, Tuesday Lynn Knight, an
                  actress and jewelry designer who lives in Studio
                  City, CA., and a son, Thomas Baker Knight III, a
                  doctor of veterinary medicine and an award winning
                  taxidermist who resides in Cantonment, Florida (He
                  also plays guitar and bass).
Nothing
                  seemed to come together after that. The band
                  members drifted away and Baker headed West to Los
                  Angeles to catch his yet defined
                  star.
We go to the
                  grave of our loved one saying, "a man has passed
                  away." But angels throng about him, saying "A Man
                  Is Born."
Indeed, the
                  angels are now shouting such for Baker Knight,
                  known as the "songwriter's songwriter" by industry
                  greats and fans alike. His music has been recorded
                  and played by a list of luminaries that reads like
                  the Who's Who of both early and contemporary
                  music.
Thereafter,
                  Baker continued to write songs, many of which were
                  recorded by the industry's elite, including Frank
                  Sinatra, Elvis Presley, and Mickey Gilley, whose
                  rendition of Baker's "Don't The Girls All Get
                  Prettier At Closing Time" won the Academy of
                  Country Music's "Song of the Year" award. He has
                  the distinction of having a Two Million Performance
                  song and three One Million Performance songs to his
                  credit.
One Baker
                  Knight fan said it best. "Heartbreak Hotel" is
                  located in "Lonesome Town."
Within a year
                  the band developed a huge following in the
                  Birmingham area and one day, as fortune would have
                  it, the proverbial "Hollywood agent" came to town.
                  He liked the band and signed them up. They recorded
                  several songs but one of them stood out, "Bring My
                  Cadillac Back," written by Knight.

Born Thomas
                  Baker Knight, Jr. in Birmingham, Alabama, July 4,
                  1933, this lauded songwriter lived in several
                  cities throughout the South, spending the majority
                  of his childhood in Birmingham where he attended
                  high school. Upon graduation he served three years
                  in the Air Force (where he learned to play the
                  guitar) and on his return to his roots, spent a
                  year at the University of Alabama. Unable to afford
                  the expense of college he attended an art school in
                  Birmingham and became a technical illustrator and
                  draftsman.
Ricky
                  recorded "Lonesome Town" and "I Got A Feeling"
                  shortly thereafter and in the late fall of 1958
                  both songs were at the top of the Billboard Charts.
                  "Lonesome Town" was at #6 and "I Got A Feeling"
                  came in at #11. Ricky went on to record a total of
                  22 songs written by Baker.
Most
                  recently, Paul McCartney recorded "Lonesome Town"
                  and included it on his "Run Devil Run" album, which
                  was released in 1999. Paul went even further,
                  singing "Lonesome Town" at a ceremony in London,
                  England, as a tribute to his late wife, Linda. He
                  also performed it on the television show, "Live
                  from the Cavern," a British club where the
                  legendary Beatles got their sea
                  legs.
But fate
                  would soon intervene. "I was introduced to Ricky
                  Nelson (who was a full-fledged teenage idol at the
                  time) by a mutual friend," Baker tells. "I played a
                  few songs for him, and much to my surprise, his
                  manager called two days later and told me Ricky
                  wanted to record two of the songs. They offered me
                  a $2,000 advance, which was unexpected but most
                  welcome at the time, considering I was flat
                  broke."
His songs
                  have been recorded by over 40 recording artists
                  beginning in 1958 when Rick Nelson recorded his
                  classic hit, "Lonesome Town." Rick went on to
                  record 21 more songs penned by the mind and soul of
                  this "songwriter's songwriter."
When Elvis
                  appeared on the music scene in 1956, Baker and some
                  musician friends were so moved by his music and the
                  music of several other artists, including BB King
                  and Bo Diddley, they formed a rock & roll band,
                  "Baker Knight and the Knightmares."
Armed with
                  his guitar and an $80 nest egg, Baker pounded the
                  pavement but to no avail. It was then that he wrote
                  perhaps his most defining song, "Lonesome Town." It
                  was his comment on being lost in a crowd, lovelorn,
                  and all alone in Hollywood. Things would get much
                  worse. Baker Knight was down to his last 36 cents.
                  "Thirty-six pennies in a glass," he recalls.
                  "Nowhere to run. Nowhere to hide."