
Died: 19 Apr 1608,
Whitehall
Sackville had appeared on the pardon roll in Oct 1553 as of London. On 8 
Mar 1557, together with Thomas Swynton, he purchased various properties in Kent 
and Sussex for £1,221. In co-operation with Thomas Norton he wrote "The Tragedie 
of Gorboduc" but he handed over his other literary project "A myrroure for 
magistrates" to George Ferrers and William Baldwin after completing the 'Introduction'.
Father: Richard
"Fill Sack" SACKVILLE (Sir Knight)
His elder sister Anne (who he would in later years argue extensively with 
regarding the ownership of Sir Thomas More's estate Beaufort which she did 
inherit from her mother, then Marchioness of Winchester, and Thomas 
had led average lives for children of their era and station and had also 
survived the third sibling a second daughter who passed on at an early age.
Married: Cecily
BAKER 1555
Notes: Knight of 
the Garter.
4. Anne SACKVILLE
Associated with: ¿?
1. 

Robert SACKVILLE (2º E. Dorset)
He
received the bulk his wealth from his father 
Sir Richard Sackville a wealthy
landowner whose acquisitiveness earned him the nickname of 'Fill Sack' and was
noted for reasons of his great wealth and vast patrimony. He 
continue to live in such a manner as his father did, knowing how to spend his 
moneys well and in such a way that he and his family could live in a comfortable 
fashion.
In 1558 upon the death of Queen Mary; 
      her half sister Elizabeth Tudor, 
      third cousin on her mother Anne 
      Boleyn's side; ascended England's throne.
(1st
E. Dorset)
2. Mary SACKVILLE
Thomas
SACKVILLE
I want to thank Bryan Ross, of the 
Bristol Renassaince Faire, for the 
research he had done about Thomas 
Sackville
His education went as planned as his father would say, where upon at the age 
of fifteen; he was had been educated out of Hart Hall, in Oxford. Two years 
later in 1553 at the age of seventeen; he left his childhood home and took 
residence in London where he began pursuing his life as a poet and playwright.
Born: 1527/1536,
Buckhurst, Withyam, Sussex, England
Much of the fabric of Knole dates from the second half of the fifteenth 
century. On 30 Jun 1456 William Fiennes sold the estate £266 13s 4d to 
Thomas 
Bourchier, Archbishop of Canterbury (and for a brief period in 1455-6, Lord 
Chancellor of England). Between that date and his death in 1486, Bourchier built 
himself a substantial but relatively austere palace grouped around a series of 
courtyards, and containing all of the elements that one would expect to see in 
the house of an important medieval prelate - a great hall with a day parlour and 
first-floor solar at one end and kitchens and domestic offices at the other, a 
chapel, and lodgings for his large household.
Children:
Buried: 26 May
1608, Withyam, Sussex, England

Acceded: 1604
Sir Thomas Sackville, Baron Buckhurst, Member of her Majesty's Privy Council,
Lord Lieutenant of Sussex, Exchequer to her Majesty the Queen and Commissioner
over state trials. Born 1535/6. Second 
of three children of Richard "Fill Sack" Sackville, Chancellor of the Exchequer 
and Winifred Brydges, dau. 
of Sir John Brydges, Mayor of London. Educated Sullington (Lullington?) g.s.; Hart? Hall, 
Oxford; Jesus?, Cambridge; Inner Temple, admitted 1 Jul 1555, called; Cambridge, 
MA 1571; Oxford incorp. 1592. Married 1555, Cecily, daughter of Sir Thomas Baker 
of London and Sissinghurst, Kent, and had 4 sons, including Robert, 
and 3 daughters; 1 son illegitimate.
In addition during the year of 1561 he 
received the title of "Grandmaster of the Order of Freemasons". In 1563 he was 
once again elected to Parliament this time for Aylesbury. When he became thirty 
one years of age, he was knighted and raised to peerage as Lord Buckhurst which 
did take place on the eighth day of Jun of that year. One year prior to 
receiving the title of Lord Buckhurst; 
Queen Elizabeth awarded a piece of 
property to keeping known as Knole.
3.  Jane SACKVILLE 
(V. Montagu)
Mother: Winifred
BRYDGES (M. Winchester)
5. Son SACKVILLE