
She is the director of United Way of Hancock County Volunteer Center, chairwoman of the Ohio Community Service Council, and co-chairs the University of Findlay Campus Compact Board -- which oversees volunteer programs for university students and staff looking to get involved in the community.
Independent candidates for commissioner have until March 1 to file candidacy petitions.

johngraber@thecourier.com
(419) 427-8417
"Everybody needs to come to the table, however there are times when you need to leave your personal agenda at the door and do what is in the best interest of the community," she said.
A self-described "Army brat," Doyle was born on a military installation in Hawaii and grew up in places like Vietnam, South Korea and Germany.
Things should never have gotten that bad in the first place, she said. Somebody should have seen the revenue shortfall coming, back when the economy started to take a nosedive in September 2001, and taken steps to soften the blow to the county's wallet, she said.
Doyle has a bachelor's degree in business administration from Bowling Green State University and was recognized for her accomplishments in October by the Findlay-Hancock County Business and Professional Women/USA association.
The Hancock County Commissioners' office needs someone with a more holistic view of the community, according to Maile Doyle.
Dissension between Commissioners Stephen Oman, David Spahr and Clymer on how to handle the funding shortfall threatened to take deputies off the street and close a wing of the county jail. And that frightened people, Doyle said.
If elected, one thing she would do is work with township trustees, Findlay city officials and other elected county officials to come up with a long-range strategic plan for the entire community.
Doyle first came to Findlay when her husband's job with Marathon brought them here for a year in 1981. They were then relocated to Wyoming and Texas before coming back in 1990.
Clymer is stepping down at the end of her term next December.
"I would like the people who work in Hancock County to be able to live in Hancock County," she said.
"It was a very scary time for a lot of people to think that deputies would have to be laid off, that they would not be safe," Doyle said. "All I could see from my perspective, from the outside looking in, was that the commissioners were not united in the common goal of keeping the people safe."
She ran for Findlay mayor this year in the Republican primary election, finishing second to Tony Iriti.
The filing deadline is Jan. 2 for candidates who want to appear on the March 2 primary election ballot.
Clymer wanted to impose the tax increase, Oman wanted to put it before the voters, and Spahr didn't seem to know which was the best plan, Doyle said.
Now she is the fifth Republican to file for Clymer's county commissioner position. She will be competing in March with Roger Bower, John Motter, Bob Nichols and Emily Walton.
That didn't seem to happen earlier this year when the commissioners asked the county's voters to approve a quarter-percent sales tax increase to help fund the county's financially ailing criminal justice system, she said.
A key element in tackling the problem is to encourage developers to build more affordable housing in the area, she said.
Public, private and nonprofit agencies must come together to keep Hancock County a vibrant community, Doyle said.
Contact staff writer John Graber at:
"It was not unforeseeable, maybe unpredictable but not unforeseeable," she said.
----------
That is why Doyle, 56, has registered to run in the Republican primary race for Commissioner Virginia Clymer's seat this March.

"I think people want us all to work together," Doyle said.

Leaders of the public, private and nonprofit sectors of the community also need to come together to tackle what she calls "under employment" -- when local salaries aren't high enough to cover the cost of living.