
And as I 
thought about that more, I asked myself, what makes for a healthy funding 
ecology?  It struck me that just as flora and fauna thrive best in a setting of 
equilibrium, so has community and national service thrived in the nurturing 
funding ecology brought about by similar equilibrium through the presence of 
successful and mutually beneficial public and private funding partnerships.  As 
a result, we have in this country built a strong and growing infrastructure for 
and of service.
How does 
City Year -- forgetting what the Corporation is going to do, what would City 
Year's strategy be with a state commission that had some of the kinds of 
sustainability measures that you're hearing are moving forward in Ohio and 
Michigan?
MR. SCHMIESING:  That's an 
excellent point, and I probably didn't stress that enough.  If you look at our 
organization -- and we're certainly not the only ones around the country -- if 
you look at the cooperative extension service across the country and know that 
we have offices in each one of our counties in every state that we exist, okay, 
that exists, our networks for the most part are very, very good in those 
communities.
We need to work on mind-sets.  With the creation 
of a funding limitation policy and the requirement and expectation of more 
concrete sustainability plans, our AmeriCorps program applicants are beginning 
to see the federal dollars as a temporary resource to put a structure into place 
that can support long-term service delivery rather than entitlement dollars that 
will remain in the community indefinitely. There's still much work to be done in 
this area.
I really would encourage the 
Corporation to look at AmeriCorps more in line with the Senior Corps programs.  
After having watched the RSVP program and helping them budget, manage that 
particular grant, to see that we know we can count on X number of dollars, we do 
have to have a local match for that program, as we do with our AmeriCorps program.  But we know what 
that's going to be basically from year to year.  We don't feel so pulled around 
by the Senior Corps program as we do sometimes with the AmeriCorps 
program.
MR. WEISS:  I guess I'm going to say I'm not probably as 
familiar with them as I should be to answer your question specifically.  Could 
you ask it another way?
MR. GLEBOCKI:  You're absolutely right that there are many numbers 
of examples throughout history where the national government has acted as the 
place for projects of scale that had been spun off.  I'm not suggesting that 
isn't true.  But at many places from a community-based level, we are talking 
about, again, projects seeded by the private sector, philanthropic sources and 
corporate, that have then gone that direction and scale.  So I think it's important to 
recognize that.
The Ohio Civilian 
Conservation Corps, OCCC, was established in 1978 with federal funds.  Those 
funds dried up in the mid-'80s, and we were able to sustain it with a mixture of 
state and private support. The OCCC is here with all six of our young men and 
women, two residential facilities and six nonresidential facilities, 
camps.
There are more of these meetings happening across the country.  So if you feel 
like doing some more driving and you want to drive all the way to Seattle, we 
will be there the end of this week on the 18th from one to four.  We'll be in 
Seattle, Washington.
In regard to matching funds, I mean, I think that 
the idea is great.  We've had really good success, I think, with local 
foundations because it's a tremendous selling point.  There's a lot of bang for 
the buck, and people are matching; but there is a lot of competition, as folks 
were saying earlier.
At the same time -- I think Kyle spoke on this issue -- we do 
have a waiver policy.  So if people can come to us and can demonstrate they'd 
made effort and simply can't get there, then we as a commission have the ability 
to say, "We will definitely take that into consideration," and they may be able 
to stay at match level for one more year or come in between two match levels or 
whatever.  So we're trying to provide some flexibility for unique local 
circumstances as well.
But for them to continue to want to do that, we have to make it so they're not 
qualifying for food stamps while they're working as full-time employees or 
part-time employees as AmeriCorps volunteers.
Could you describe the Gund 
Foundation's exit strategy; and would you also express why or whether you think 
that it's appropriate when the Corporation provides a grant, it should or should 
not be, likewise, developing an exit strategy?
MR. 
EISNER:  That would be really helpful.
The interesting thing about 
these proposals is that one size does not fit all.  What is needed in 
southeastern Ohio is not the same as what is needed in Toledo in northwest Ohio, 
and the resources available in each area to match the grant varies dramatically 
too.  It is important that AmeriCorps members be charged with recruiting and 
engaging local citizens in traditional volunteering and to be involved in fund 
raising for their program.
So to apply this 
concept to the issues at hand today, I would make several observations on how we 
might support a healthy funding ecology of service. First, it is essential to 
maintain the public and private funding partnerships that have emerged and make 
the current quality and quantity of community and national service initiatives a 
part of the American landscape.
MS. VAN DER 
VEER:  Thank you, Glenn.  Any follow-up necessary for this speaker?
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thank you for sharing 
how important your member experience was to you.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Okay.  Thank you to Leslie, Martha, and 
Kris.  If I could have Mary and Maureen up front.  And also is Larry Meade still 
in the room?  He had signed up to speak, but I don't think he is in the group.  
I don't know why.  I don't see him down front here.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thank you, Kris.  
Thanks to both Kris and Martha for driving six hours to be with us 
today.
Muskegon is a beautiful community on the shores 
of Lake Michigan.  However, our median income is half of what the median income is for the state of 
Michigan.  So to lose the dollars in AmeriCorps grants would be significant in 
our community.
Beginning in year four, we increase 
their program operational match to be 50/50.  Then in year five, it becomes 
40/60.  And then in year six, it becomes 25/75.
The public and private support, the level of dollars is simply 
not there to supply the public funding.  We start to get into great specifics 
there; but by rule of thumb, it wouldn't work that way, at least in the 
communities that we know of.
MS. SULLIVAN:  Does my time start when I start introducing myself?
And we need to think about how to best 
transition programs from full AmeriCorps program funding to reduced or no 
federal dollars.  I'm not sure that the one-size-fits-all percentage reduction 
in the federal share every year or funding cycle is the answer.  We must be 
sensitive to the capacity of organizations in geographic areas to sustain or 
partially sustain services in the same manner and within the same time frame.  
We know that in some organizations and communities it will take 
longer.
The Ohio Volunteer Center Association would like to voice the 
following ideas pertaining to AmeriCorps rulemaking:
The 
principles that are laid out by this Save AmeriCorps Coalition really revolve 
around three key ideas, first, that the rulemaking process should focus the deep 
well of experiences that are out there in the field, which you are doing now and 
we herald you for that, that should utilize the fair and open market philosophy 
that calls on all to compete on a level playing field the precious resources we 
call national service resources.
Boston is a little closer to Ohio than Seattle.  
We'll be in Boston on March 26.  We'll be in Washington D.C., so we won't have 
to drive very far, on March the 31st.  April 2nd we'll be in Rosie Mauk's second 
home, Toledo being her first, of course, but her second home being the Dallas 
Fortworth area in Texas. So we'll be there April 2.
When that 
team was lost, what had happened is basically we were not reaching the amount of 
young people that we were reaching on a continual basis through AmeriCorps.  So 
when the opportunity came to apply for a state commission grant, Volunteer 
Muskegon jumped on that along with several partners.
MS. MAUK:  I've actually seen the Public Allies site 
where your members and your program directors log on and start accumulating some 
of the data that you just talked about, the statistics about the long-term 
effects of AmeriCorps members -- I guess it's not even a question.  It's maybe 
somewhat of a comment.
MR. EISNER: 
 Kitty, before you start, thank you again for making this possible and for also 
so generously treating us.
So I guess the two things that I wanted to touch 
on were sustainability, particularly to the extent to what AmeriCorps members 
should be engaged in in recruiting future volunteers or temporary, short-period 
volunteers.  I worked in Lorain, which, if you don't know Ohio very well, is a 
steelworkers town, a car town.
A little background for those of you who don't know about 
Public Allies, we are an AmeriCorps program that works to recruit young people 
18 to 30 to advance their leadership, their participation in nonprofits, 
communities.
Also the qualifications for end 
requirements for tutors, which is the second thing I wanted to touch on, in the 
program that I worked for, aside from putting a proficiency test on the 
application process, I think it's sort of difficult to test where people are 
at.
We're talking about communities in rural southern Ohio Appalachian counties 
had the means in terms of finances but also lacked some of the community support 
to do some of the programming that we've done down there.  There may have 
been some other methods. So we may have been even more flexible.
Now, during that time, 
none of the 85/15 changes because what we heard when we engaged our grantees in this dialogue about how could we begin to get 
them to share more costs, it was very clear they did not have the ability to 
raise money for the member stipends but they could raise money to get to the 
point where they were actually affording more of the program operations, like 
the full-time staff and training, things like that.
MR. SCHMIESING:  
That's a good question.  I think there probably are.  If we look at 
the sustainability of how we did it, we probably would have allowed for even 
more flexibility locally.  We put some parameters on of what we thought 
needed to happen.  In some cases they didn't meet that because maybe the 
parameters, even though they appeared to be flexible on paper and I think they 
were, were not quite as flexible as what some communities had the capability to 
do.
Secondly, consider 
providing incentives for communities, such as Cleveland, to build capacity for 
community-wide sustainability strategies.  Thirdly, include grantees in the 
process of helping to define sustainability so that we can tackle this problem 
together.
How would you suggest that we at the Corporation 
think about it?  And I think if all states were making the kind of progress that 
Ohio is making, a lot of this discussion would be fairly moot and the 
challenges, that Ohio is really at the very far cutting edge on a lot of 
this.
MR. PENCHAL:  Two years.  That was the limit at that time.
I hope the 
members are very vital in their testimony to the success of the program and in 
programs with youth involvement, a very valid example of community service and 
what community service is as well as the diversity of education and levels of 
knowledge because we had a very wide range of age groups that participated.  Our 
oldest volunteer was 67, I think, the youngest being 19.
MS. KAISER:  I'm trying to think.  I would have to think about 
the commonality of those that have sort of not been able to continue on because 
of the increased match requirements.  I mean, some of them the 
unique circumstances might have been that they weren't able to leverage 
resources from their partner sites in terms of asking them for match, things 
like that, or increased match.  I'm not certain.  We'd have to go back and kind 
of look at that, and we'd certainly be willing to do that.
We do need 
to figure out how to push the dialogue deeper.  I don't know if I've mentioned this, but 
we're also doing this internally at the Corporation.  We're doing in reach so 
that both the state/national staff and the rest of the staff of the entire 
Corporation have been invited to participate in meetings like this so that we 
can get the best of the ideas that are percolating internally.
I guess I would ask another question that you can either 
bundle together or not which is do you find that start-up City Years, that new 
ones require sort of a higher level of federal support than the ones that have 
been going and have been successful for many years; and is there a way of 
thinking that there should be sort of a higher threshold, a higher level of 
initial investment?
- - -
Also one of our members last year who was serving at a church, 
at Washington United Church of Christ, was a volunteer coordinator there.  She 
was able to in her ten-month term of service mobilize a congregation of under 50 
people to mobilize a volunteer base of 400 people per month serving.
79 percent of our partners report increased 
collaboration due to their partnerships with us.  69 percent report increased 
volunteerism, and 44 percent report improved evaluations due to the support of 
our program.  We hope that providing more flexibility and how we support 
community-based organizations to serve the community will allow for greater 
success.
MR. ODENBRETT:  In part.  I think the problem is that those of us who are working 
with truly grass-roots organizations are working with organizations whose 
populations that they are serving are vulnerable and highly mobile.  And so to 
be able to say three years out that we're going to be able demonstrate 20 
percent of whoever we serve had their lives moved in any given way is simply 
impossible.           So it looks like in our case we're going to have to make a 
very difficult choice; and it's a choice I really don't want to make, you 
know.
MS. DRUMMOND:  Sure.  Thank 
you.
MR. CALDWELL:  Well, you know, the neat thing about my job is 
I can give you a Michigan perspective and then have to live with it.  That used 
to be the case before I became chair of ASK.  Now I've got to think both of 
small states and large states.  And while I could answer that question from my 
state's perspective, I think it requires a richer dialogue before I could answer 
it both for smaller states and larger states.
MR. CALDWELL:  
Thank you.  I just want to point out before my five minutes starts that you have 
three males on the panel.  The preponderance of color-blind people rests with 
the male population, so we may not recognize the colors that you hold 
up.
Our Joint State Office and Commissioned Staff Program 
Committee is charged with this task of determining the role other national 
service programs, such as VISTA and RSVP, could play in assisting AmeriCorps 
programs to sustain their service needs to be part of exploring integrated 
national service programming.
Also 
someone should be responsible for making decisions in a timely manner and 
notifying commissions and programs with adequate time to properly prepare and 
review nominations.  And then in a somewhat related topic, continuing 
application requirements seen burdensome; and we would recommend a reduced or 
shorter application should be developed for the continuation process.
And 
in our work -- and I have several grantees in the audience today.  They'll all 
tell you that it is because of the federal investment and because of that 
presence of that funding that brings in other players and leverages other 
players.
MS. KAISER:  The diversity 
in terms of members or diversity in terms of type?
MS. DOYLE:  Thank you.  I'm Maile Doyle, and I do thank you very much for coming out to the field to talk to 
practitioners to gain insight into the actual process of the local AmeriCorps 
programs.  I chair the Ohio Community Service Council.  Having served on this 
commission for seven years, I've seen the AmeriCorps program grow in service to 
our state, indeed, in service to our country.
So I'd like you to give some thoughts on 
those issues that you just named.
MR. EISNER:  And the interesting question on 
something like that is not necessarily when you get cut.  The interesting 
question is that once you have full-time staffers, you actually have more 
capacity. So at that point, once we get you to the point of being a full-time 
staff person, we can actually give you additional FTEs without having to provide 
that much more additional admin support because you've sort of gotten to the 
point where you are able -- as you said, it doesn't cost that much more to train 
20 than 10.           I think we should be thinking about sustainability both on 
sort of the production side but also think that there's an interesting upside to 
the sustainability decision.
Recommendations:  Rather than focusing 
evidence of sustainability on strictly fiscal issues on individual grantees, look at factors such as the increase 
in the number of organizations benefitting and included in a particular 
AmeriCorps model, organizations that otherwise would not have the capacity to 
sponsor national service programs on their own.
In June 2003 
the state abolished the Ohio CCC.  9-11 had something to do with it and so 
forth, but this is a case -- possibly a solution would be for AmeriCorps to have 
grants to states so they (inaudible) 5013C organizations and carry on on their 
own and once established would not require any further funds.
Those individuals touch the lives 
of 115,000 people every year through education programs, public safety, human 
needs, and the environmental programs that we fund.  When you look at the 
economic impact of AmeriCorps, the educational awards, the other piece, the 
developing of the members, the educational awards that have been given out to 
date in Michigan offer a value of $17 million in educational awards.  
That's a huge impact for a program that's only been around for a decade.
Thank you for your patience and waiting to speak, those of you who signed up.  
For those of you who didn't speak and may on your way back home have a thought 
that, gosh, if only I had a chance to say that, you will have a chance.  Here in 
this little blue flier I think that each of you has it tells you how.
We must recognize the role of the 
federal government and the scale of resources it contributes as the overriding 
key to sustainability.  Foundations and corporations have demonstrated their 
deep interest and continued support of service, but the fact is the private 
sector simply does not have the level of financial capacity to replace the role 
of public funding.           Second, we must be cognizant of the financial 
reality faced by foundations and corporations in the current economic 
situation.  While we are beginning to see some improvement in the marketplace, 
foundation assets are down from the highs of just a few years ago; and many corporate-giving programs remain restrictive. 
Increasing matching requirements for organization will put these programs 
between the rock of reduced public support and the hard place of constrained 
private resources.
Every year we submit a 
package that talks about competitiveness and how these programs need to grow and 
foster and be sustained.  And then also you already have numbered benchmarks in 
place -- some of them are not as effective as others -- that look at containing 
costs and also build in some sort of sense of reduced federal share but also 
build sustainability in programs.
MS. VAN DER 
VEER:  Okay.  Martha.
We are concerned about performance measures. We're concerned 
about qualifications for tutors and, of course, sustainability.  But because 
that's been addressed at length, I'm going to skip to the other area, that 
according to Adam's notes, are a concern; and I agree as a commissioner that 
this is a concern and that is the grants process and specifically around the 
grants timetable.
I believe 
that all staff should be engaged in promoting their program locally to attract 
both volunteers and monetary resources.  AmeriCorps members can be trained to 
help write grants, to make presentations to tell the story for the ask and to 
become visible in the community.
MS. SMYTH:  I think it is another side 
of the coin in what you're asking.  Public Allies is unique that we place all of 
our people in different organizations, so it is hard for us to come to three 
program outcomes that each of our members do.  Like some of them are doing 
health.  Some are doing young people.  Some are doing community 
initiatives.
And it's been highly successful providing more resources to 
bring in more programs, but what it didn't do is cripple the programs.  And 
what's important about that overall process is that the decisions are made 
locally.
So in order to do that, we 
had a couple different strategies that we approached.  One, we did require 
increased cash matches from our local host sites, which were our counties, each 
year.  We required the counties identified to have advisory committees on a 
regular basis to build that capacity on a local level.  We had a comprehensive 
evaluation plan to collect data on multiple levels, not only including inputs 
and our activities, our knowledge gained, our attitudes and opinions, 
aspirations of those who received services, skills, and obviously practice 
change.
We are joined in partnership with a group of nonprofit 
neighborhood-based affiliates.  Our nonprofit partners do, in fact, pay the 15 
percent member match for the members who are serving in their sites; but they 
are not able to make any contribution to the administrative overhead or the 
operating costs of the program.  However, in the mid-'80s--- and we've been kind 
of working together since the mid-'80s -- we decided we'd have to hang together 
rather than fall apart literally.
One of the things that the director of the West Virigina 
Commission said I think is very true in that it builds leadership.  We have a 
Youth Volunteer Corps, which works with young people between the ages of 12 and 
18, and many of our AmeriCorps members have come from our Youth Volunteer 
Corps.
Some of them continued with nonstipend volunteers in a 
community network.  That advisory committee that represented many components of 
the community continued the program, or in some cases it was integrated into 
some existing staffing patterns or staffing members.
MR. GLEBOCKI:  The Gund 
Foundation in many cases has an exit strategy in the traditional foundation 
behavior of helping start organizations up, starting them to launch, attract 
additional community resources, and then slowly step away over time.  But there 
are also any number of times where the foundation recognizes the critical nature 
of that program or that need or that service and has stayed with organizations 
for actually in some cases several decades.
Now we're in a severe recession.  It's tough in 
Detroit.  Our unemployment, they say when the rest of the nation has a cold, 
Detroit has pneumonia.  It's very hard in Michigan throughout the state.  So at 
a time like this to begin decreasing that federal partnership is really going to 
hurt what we can do in our community.
We'll exit from the field when there are no 
longer any dropouts.  We'll exit from the field when there are not children who 
are not advancing even one grade level year by year in school.  There's real 
work to be done, and there's a need for real support.  Thank you.
We 
now have a ten-year history of doing good in communities with a track record of 
the good, the bad, and the ugly, of affecting changes in lives one life at a 
time in the AmeriCorps member him or herself who will never quite look at life 
in the same way again and of all the communities who have significantly changed 
something that needed changing.
As a small and proper state, we probably need AmeriCorps in 
our community more than a lot of other places; but it's harder and harder in 
West Virginia to manage programs with decreased federal funds.  But as the 
federal support decreases if the restrictions and requirements -- like some of 
the paperwork that Jean talked about -- if that also decreased, it would make 
AmeriCorps a much more appealing program in West Virginia.  And it would make it 
easier for us to grant out the money to find small grass-roots agencies who are often in the best position to meet the needs of the 
community.
Finally, I 
think that the communication dialogue has been vitally effective and vitally 
important and hope that this can continue as a way of the Corporation doing 
business.           Again, I thank you for this opportunity to talk to you today 
and provide insights on how AmeriCorps can work.  I also would like to ask, too, 
that you provide these and other opportunities in the future for people to 
testify on the great work of AmeriCorps.  Thank you.
The Corporation should provide adequate time for applicants 
to submit their proposals and post and maintain accurate information regarding 
deadlines on their web site.  As of March 11, for example, the CNS web site does 
not have any fall 2004 deadlines listed. It lists the Homeland Security deadline 
of April 13, but no guidelines have been issued for this deadline. We've been 
told that the deadline will be moved to the fall, but nobody will say that for sure.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Yes.  Good things come 
from Ohio.  Charles, you're next so go ahead and take your shot at it.  
         MR. VARRO:  My name is Charles Varro.  I'm from Cleveland, Ohio.  I'm 
here primarily to win some support for the continuation of AmeriCorps.  I'm 
speaking as a former president of the National Association of the Civilian 
Conservation Corps alumni, 34 years.
I would 
submit that there are some AmeriCorps programs that exemplify the dual goals of 
serving critical community needs and nurturing community needs for the common 
good, flagship programs that represent the model, the expectation of what 
service is, what service to one's country looks like.  We've heard about a couple of those.
MR. 
EISNER:  Thank you.
Then, you know, I've heard about your sustainability 
plan since we arrived last night.  And so, you know, perhaps some of you all 
could help take some initiative with some support from us to be absolutely 
right.  Let's garner all that information and see what is already happening.
In my opinion -- and it's my deep conviction -- from the last ten 
years or so, I believe that AmeriCorps at its core is not about getting things 
done and it's not about mobilizing volunteers.  I really appreciate that I could 
follow my Public Allies and City Year colleagues in this because I believe that 
it's really about nurturing leadership for the common good in our country.   
        President Bush often talks about the need to create a culture of 
service, citizenship, and responsibility.  He has challenged Americans to serve 
at least 4,000 of hours of service during their lifetimes.  In this electoral 
season, we have the expectation that our leaders will have a history of service 
to their country and that they shall have made a formal commitment to serve and 
that they should be able to talk about that.
MR. EISNER:  Thank you very much.
MR. EISNER:  Thank you.  I'm sure that I could take 
up the rest of our three hours in conversation.
I am pretty comfortable saying that, you know, 
we like the competitive processes.  We think our results are such that we have a 
great story to tell, that we can tell it in a very humanistic way but also very 
well balanced with hard statistical results that show the impact.  So a 
competitive environment, an increasingly competitive environment, does not 
overly concern me.
MR. EISNER:  
No.
At one time in the 
staff of five at the volunteer center, four of us were former AmeriCorps 
members.  Currently there are three of us who are former AmeriCorps members.  
It's made a huge difference in the way we operate our center.  The way we built 
our center was based a lot on what happened with AmeriCorps and with the 
Corporation programs.
First, lower 
federal match requirements to allow smaller and faith-based organizations to 
compete. Encourage utilization of AmeriCorps members in fund raising and 
capacity-building activities versus direct service to increase sustainability of 
programs and create marketable professionals.  Eliminate activity percentages 
from member position descriptions.
The CCC and the military brought together young men from different parts of the 
country and broke down barriers between race, and this helped to make this one 
nation.  I suggest any change you make must be sensitive within these forms of 
diversity and make no changes in the program that should make AmeriCorps less 
diverse.
Also the alumni of AmeriCorps played a very vital 
role in continued service.  My friend Carolyn, who is also an alumni from this 
program, is now a trainer for Reading is Fundamental in D.C.  She was just here 
this past weekend doing training here in Ohio, and we had a very interesting 
conversation about educational reform in an urban setting and how AmeriCorps 
paved the way for us to get involved in more volunteer settings and volunteer 
programs because people look at AmeriCorps on your resume and realize that you've had obviously quite a lot of dedication to be 
involved in a program like that.  And I think that's a very valid point, that 
this program has a very good name attached to it; and I don't want to see that 
that's tainted in any way.
The public/private partnership is 
really very critical to City Year Columbus and to the entire City Year 
organization; and I can tell you that from my employer's perspective, City Year 
is a very unique organization.  It is one that we have funded since the program 
began here in Columbus ten years ago, and that's pretty unusual for our company 
to sustain its financial support of an organization for that long a period of 
time.
MR. EISNER:  Thank you very much.  I was a little worried 
about what three hours was going to feel like; but it felt for me enormously 
productive, interesting.  I learned a bunch of things that I didn't 
know.
They 
do.  They look up to people in that sweatshirt and they say, "That's my City 
Year teacher. I want to be in City Year," and all the other agencies as well.  
It's very, very inspiring.  As you know, when you put it on your resume, 
employers look at it and just say, "Oh, this is wonderful.  I wish I had done 
this.  I wish my children had done this.  I wish everyone could do this."
I come before you today to discuss capacity-building 
activities by AmeriCorps members, including volunteer recruitment and fund 
raising.  One of the unique qualities of AmeriCorps is that at the local level, 
citizens determine what is needed in their community, design a program to 
address that need, and submit a proposal to the state commission for funding to 
conduct the program at the local level.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Maureen, thank you for 
your passion.  Okay.  Kitty, Charles, and Maile come on up.  And I need Jean 
Ambrose, David Weiss, and Leslie Adkins down here up front.
I remind you that the CCC (inaudible) part of the country.  
In fact, you're still enjoying the fruits of our labor.
MS. BURCSU:  Well, I think my sense is 
that most states are thinking about sustainability as it relates to their particular state and needs; and so I 
guess I think a lot more is going on perhaps at the state level than perhaps we 
have shared with you.
MARCH 15, 2004
I know that my 
husband went to college on a GI bill.  He became a teacher.  I know that 
education funding has been linked to defense in different times in our nation's 
history; and I believe that an educated populous is the strongest defense that 
any country, any nation can have.           I have concern and I am hoping -- 
even though I feel like it's me against the President so I'm really nervous in 
saying this; but I would hope that there is a reverse of the move toward 
reduction in costs per member, especially for small organizations like ours, 
small community-based organizations.  We're already lean.  We don't have middle 
management that we can get rid of.
MS. MAUK:  So maybe, you know, another piece of data 
that would be helpful for us would be for us to sit down with you and figure 
that out.  Where's the break?  I mean, when you get cut, our conversation was 
about what we all live through.
MR. EISNER:  Yes.  It's kind of strange, Kyle, and I manage to 
talk all the time so having this sort of bank-shot dialogue is a little 
strange.  I appreciate everything that you said in the testimony. However, it 
was fairly vague in terms of providing sort of descriptions for us about how to 
move forward.  Let me just push in a couple of areas and see if I understand 
--
No. 2, develop a broad, clear definition of 
sustainability and the criteria that demonstrates progress.  At the national 
level, develop a sustainability plan that works in concert with and complements 
the efforts developed in working at the state level.
Now, I have a whole 
paragraph here about the dot com implosion, the impact on higher education 
endowments, and all of that.  (Inaudible)  Suffice it to say that when we first 
started, the higher education endowment model was being used as a sustainability 
model here in Ohio.  The higher education people were being brought in to teach 
us how to establish endowments.  We now know that that has problems based on 
what's going on in the stock market currently.  So I won't go into any great 
detail there.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  We 
love hearing from Kyle, but we'd like to hear from a few other people too.  Our next speaker is Jeff Glebocki from the Gund 
Foundation.
A lot of people in that community have 
never gone to college.  Their children don't go to college. Their grandparents 
didn't go to college.  And so we had a lot of members who were either there 
through the National Job Board that they could come to the state and perform 
tasks in the state, in Lorain, or were members of the community who had been 
laid off and didn't have any other work and so they chose to do AmeriCorps, 
which, like this lady said before, was a great turn of events in their lives.
It's a choice of either partnering with organizations that have 
the capacity to collect that kind of data and generally are working with 
populations that are not so highly mobile and, in fact, less in need and cutting 
off the grass-roots organizations which don't have the capacity to help us with 
that tracking or to stick with what we're trying to do now at the risk of losing 
support from the Corporation because we can't prove that we're making the kind 
of difference that you want us to prove we're making. That's the rock and the 
hard place, I'm afraid.
Thank you.
I think 
that -- I wouldn't speculate about the percentages of private and public 
partnership; but I would say that with some of the history and struggles that 
some sites have had in the past as they began, there has been an absolute 
commitment to be a little more patient and a little more structured in gaining much 
more commitment up front to multiyear funding to ensure that those new sites get 
off to a great start.
As some people may know, I've been on the 
bandwagon for quite some time.  I strongly believe that there should be a 
required submittal of sustainability plans and more intensive scrutiny of those 
sustainability plans.  I do believe and support the required decreased federal 
funding and the increased local matches in some way, shape, or form.  It may be 
in finances.  It may be in people.
Allow grantees to determine the 
scope of local and state needs.  Provide higher levels of technical 
assistance in order to decrease the learning curve of grantees.  Provide 
technical assistance in identifying potential match dollars and/or sustainable 
dollars.  And, lastly, create consistent program and member requirement 
guidelines.
I'm Kyle Caldwell.  I'm the 
executive director of the Michigan Community Service Commission; and I thank Mr. 
Eisner, Rosie, Gretchen, and everyone for allowing me to speak before you 
today.  I represent several organizations today, but I'll really focus on my 
role as a staff member of a state commission.  I'm also the chair of our trade 
association, the American Association of State Service Commissions; and then 
also I'm a member of the Save AmeriCorps Coalition.
But let me talk about after 1998 
what happened.  Over the three years, three and a half years of our program, we 
had approximately 27 counties that operated within us and partnered with us for 
the Ohio Teen Bridges program.  Of those 27 counties, today approximately 19 of 
those counties still conduct vehicular safety programs that were operated under 
the federal funding of the program.
No 
better illustration of that can be found than this great state of Ohio where CitizenCorps in a post-911 world has really expanded under the leadership of the 
Ohio Council.  And then, of course, I have to say that Michigan is right behind 
them in developing that sort of leadership.
If you can't make 
it to another to speak in person, we have conference calls happening March 25, April 1, and April 5.  It tells you how to get registered 
to be on one of those conference calls.
MS. CURRY:  It's very expensive unfortunately.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Very good.  Thank you.
Going back to the 
local match that we require our partners to contribute, the one thing that the 
gentleman from the foundation talked about is the economics.  Right now we're in 
an economic recession. We all know that all nonprofit agencies have actually 
reduced the amount of funds that they are bringing in through private donations, 
and that certainly does not make it any more easy for our local partners to come 
up with those funds.  When our school partners have to choose between staff 
people and teachers versus AmeriCorps, you know who is going to be shown the 
door first.
MR. EISNER:  Just following up on that, you note that outcomes are best defined 
by community.  I think you were part of a conversation we had earlier today 
where we talked about, you know, top down doesn't work and bottom up doesn't 
scale.
MR. EISNER:  Do you know of other 
volunteer center organizations in the network that's going to likewise provide 
comments along those lines?  That was an interesting list of needs, and I want 
to make sure that we found a way to very specifically understand how those 
particular issues impact volunteer centers and whether it's a relationship 
between the volunteer centers and the commissions or between the volunteer 
centers and the Corporation.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thank you for 
your service back when you were CCC members and for your lifelong commitment to 
service since then.  I just reiterate that there are plenty of other ways that 
you can get your full testimony to us, and we'll go over that at the end because 
we'd like to have it.
I don't think we're going to 
get -- this was a terrific meeting.  I can't imagine we'll get to much more 
depth in the other local meetings.  So for me the next question is how to extend 
the dialogue so that we can take some of the ideas and ferment them that came up 
at this meeting and I'm sure will come up at the others and really begin to dig 
deeper and deeper until we can begin to figure out a strong-man 
policy.
Before 2003 
I was a full-time, 100-percent AmeriCorps program director.  After our cuts we 
went from 21 AmeriCorps members serving over 1,900 children in one year down to 
10 full-time AmeriCorps members and a 50-percent program director.
The CCC provided a (inaudible) throughout Ohio.  It was a way 
for disadvantaged young people to move from the lives of dependence on various 
systems into lives as productive and engaged citizens.  Many of these corps 
members took advantage of the AmeriCorps Education Award.
MR. 
EISNER:  I'm sorry.
MS. MAUK:  
No.  Just thank you.
I'm also here as senior vice president of 
National City Bank here in Central Ohio, one of City Year Columbus' major and long-standing funders.  I'm also 
here as a personal funder of City Year.  So this issue of sustainability and how 
we fund the organization is critical to me in all three of those ways.
Now, that has created a special challenge for us with 
respect to performance measures because since we are being asked to shove three 
summers out, disconnected by academic years, what the overall impact of our 
program is going to be in organizations that themselves cannot even afford to 
run other than summer programs that we support and might not be there if we 
weren't providing that support.  It has gotten tougher and tougher and tougher 
for us to show that we need to be there for the community.
These are 
saleable products.  They take ordinary milk bottles and create 
five-and-a-quarter pieces of plastic that are eight-feet long and (inaudible) 
five-and-a-quarter inch thick.  A .22 bullet would not penetrate them.  So 
they're built to last a long time on the golf course and in private.
MS. MAUK:  And we haven't forgotten our conversation last night 
that we would contact a couple of individuals whose names you give us 
nationally.
We want to help; but we need ways to be encouraged to work 
together, not to compete with each other.  Thank you.
Many of our 
Ohio volunteer centers have experienced AmeriCorps.  Many have not because of 
some of the daunting application processes or finding that match money.  So here 
we go.
MS. SULLIVAN:  Thank 
you.  Then actually my third point is around reconsidering the idea of 
sustainability.  Each AmeriCorps member presently serves two years, at least in our program.  I think that's 
the limit.  Not one of them is going to make AmeriCorps stipends a way of life.  
The hope of their becoming lifelong servers in their community seems to be 
directly linked to the quality of their experience, a combination supported by 
training, orientation, and all the aspects of member development.
As we know, it's 
only a fraction.  AmeriCorps costs only a fraction of what those programs cost 
because of the creative design of AmeriCorps programs that relies on 
public/private partnerships that we've heard a lot about.
Now, in regard to an exit strategy, one of the 
things I thought when you asked that other gentleman that was, you know, the 
Urban Appalachian Council, part of our work is GED and adult basic education.  
And the reality in Cincinnati where we are is that African-Americans and 
Appalachians in inner-city neighborhoods in Cincinnati have the highest dropout 
rates in the city.
And we understand, again, that one 
size does not fit all.  However, it would help us in our mission and our vision 
with our agencies.  Thank you.
Do 
you see that as contradicting what you're asking for about outcomes being set by 
the communities, and is there any middle ground there so that we can find a way 
of beginning standardization so that we actually could take these results and 
roll up as opposed to just having hundreds and hundreds of individual outcomes 
organization by organization?
Many of the 
requirements are particularly burdensome to small states and make it hard for us 
to recruit new programs, and we definitely don't want to lose the quality 
programs we currently have just because they've been funded for so many years.  
Most of our programs are education based so it's unreasonable to think that the 
problem is going to be solved in three years.  The need is ongoing; and so three 
years just isn't enough to follow the community problem, nor is it enough to 
leverage the resources to support the program in absence of federal 
funding.
MS. MAUK:  
David and I were actually having this conversation last night.  He said, "Rosie, 
about how many FTEs does it take for a program that they can then afford to have 
a full-time person directing those AmeriCorps members?"  And I just heard you 
say that you had 19?
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thank you very much, 
David.
COLUMBUS, OHIO
MS. VAN DER 
VEER:  So thank you very much. If I could have Donna, Jean, and David come on up 
to the podium there or the table there; and we have Leslie Adkins, Martha 
Bottomley, and Kris Collee, if you'd come on down and sit right up here in 
front.  Donna Smyth, you're up here.
But I think it has to be dealt with 
in a deeper way; and I think before I would prescribe a formula that you need to 
kind of go through this process and think through both the large, medium, and 
small states perspective.
Finally, work study, well, I could write a 20-page paper, as 
Rosie knows, on the whole issue of work study.  Suffice it to say that work 
study is needs based.  If you want to have a nondiscriminatory program that 
is open to, in our case, a variety of students in the university circle area, 
you base it simply on financial eligibility; and you're going to be screening 
out some of the best possible national service participants.
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:  Is there any way you can do some kind 
of Internet message board that we could get some of this written dialogue so we 
can bounce ideas back and forth?
And probably -- I'll be real honest with you. 
This is probably not going to be a real popular point of view; but we would have 
decreased our match that we provided, increased the local match in terms of 
either finances or how they participated, and found some other way to determine 
how that local match increased, whether it be in cash, in-kind, or human 
capital.
If the long-term delivery system that is put into place 
involves community volunteers, and most often it does, then the mind-set that 
volunteers are free must be dispelled and adequate financial and human resources 
must be available on a continuing basis to manage and support that volunteer 
force.
MR. EISNER:  Let me again thank Kitty and Bill 
from the Commission and thank Paul from the State Office and our whole team, 
Rosie and Gretchen and Frank and Susannah and Sheree (phonetic 
spelling).
So I normally think about the first, second, and third graders 
that are tutored.  I think about the junior high school students that 
participate in our Young Heroes program, and I think about the corps members who 
are 17 to 24 years old.
MS. VAN DER 
VEER:  Thank you, Kyle.  David and Rosie, do you have any questions for 
Kyle?
Okay.  I think I need to paraphrase my comments just because I 
know I won't get them done in five minutes.  My name is Kitty Burcsu, and I'm 
the executive director of the Ohio Community Service Council, which is the 
official name of Ohio's state service commission.
What my board members would say to you is that the 
partnership is one of the most attractive things that allows that private sector 
match to be raised.  We want to grow.  There needs to be a critical mass of 
volunteers so that the community is inspired because it's not just about 
inspiring and developing the corps members to be lifelong community servers. 
It's about inspiring the community and inspiring the children.
Government, however, has greater financial capacity 
than philanthropy, though its process for funding is more restrictive but is 
better positioned to support large-scale programs and more sophisticated 
organizations.  And let's not forget that government and political leaders are 
also well positioned to define the civic value of national service.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Okay.  Let's 
take this one last speaker, and then that's unfortunately it.  But then I'm 
going to tell you about all kinds of ways that you can still have dialogue with 
us.  So go ahead. Please introduce yourself.
I'll skip over my miscellaneous comments and go 
to my first comment, which isn't actually perhaps even on one of the rule lists; 
but I believe that the member education awards need to be increased.  We've 
talked about this locally.
We were founded in 1999 in Detroit.  
That was at the height in '98, '99 when the money was being raised at the height 
of a really great economy.  We were very fortunate.  But the appeal to that 
private sector, our private sector match was two-thirds to one-third, was that it was a partnership; and that is the 
kind of thing that gives people hope in our city.
One of the big things that probably contributed to our 
sustainability efforts within the communities was that all of our members were 
trained and supported in terms of program development and program evaluation, 
and to us the most important was volunteer management.  We know that programs 
are supported in local communities.
MR. EISNER:  
Well, I promised myself that I was going to be asking more than saying.  
However, I really can't just let that go.  There are a lot of places where it's 
actually the flip.
MR. ODENBRETT:  Well, I warned 
Jeff that I was going to mention the Gund Foundation as a potential convenor of that kind of conversation.  I do think that 
community foundations are in a position to get that conversation going.  I must 
say that in the past when I have tried to nudge that conversation into 
happening, sometimes the response has been, "We make grants to individual 
organizations."
If you look at scientific invention, if you look at 
everything from space to small business to the Department of Commerce to Health 
and Human Services to pretty much across the board, you can find example after 
example where the government is actually responsible for doing the pilot 
project, the study, and then it actually transfers to the marketplace or to the 
small business.  And certainly there are a lot of cases in the area of nonprofit 
where we have successfully -- where an AmeriCorps participant has successfully 
helped an organization build capacity.
MR. WEISS:  Let me try and answer that this way.  
There are three people in the room who could answer that much better than I 
could.  By the way, we have City Year executive site directors here 
today.
So then also that really comes down to with small 
nonprofit agencies, such as ours, in smaller communities, our donor lists are 
already saturated.  We already share many of the same donors throughout our 
communities.  We know that the Johnsons are on everyone's donor lists, and 
chances are so are the Smiths.
As is typical with my attendance at events related to City Year, what I have 
prepared to say and then what I wind up saying normally turn out to be two 
different things because of all of the excellent ideas and thoughts that I 
normally hear at these events.  So let me, first of all, talk about City Year's 
position to AmeriCorps and first of all say that we are here today in large part 
because of the support that we have enjoyed over many years and are greatly 
appreciative of that.
From our standpoint in a state 
that has very few resources and few sources of partnership dollars, that 
AmeriCorps program is so significant to us in terms of it's the face of 
AmeriCorps in our state.  If we were to lose that program, AmeriCorps in West Virginia would suffer a huge setback because we only get 
$500,000 of formula funds.
We began our grants process 
about six months prior to the due date from the Corporation.  We do that so that 
we can solicit concept papers from all potential grantees.  Then we work with 
them, providing technical assistance until they get to the next step to submit a full application.  We also hold quarterly 
meetings around the state with our Corporation office in our state to talk about 
AmeriCorps grants, VISTA, and CCC.
In regard to evaluation, I think that's a 
great thing; and I do understand that there are guidelines, more specific guidelines that are going to be 
forthcoming.  I affirm the idea that there would be more stability in the 
program, more predictability in terms of what would be asked for.
So I don't know that I can give you an 
across-the-board answer.  It is case by case; and when there is value and 
contribution to the community, we have intention of remaining there in some 
fashion.
MR. EISNER:  If I could interrupt, are you talking 
about the support per member?  Are you talking about the federal share of the 
support?  Which one are you worried about reducing?
But the bottom 
line for us was the fact that our sustainability focused on how do we sustain 
the program in terms of the types of things that were needed in the community, 
not necessarily how do we sustain the funding of the program.
MR. EISNER:  
Thank you very much.
I cannot begin to 
tell you how much my AmeriCorps experience meant to me.  I spent two years as an 
AmeriCorps member in Muskegon, Michigan.  Kris and I both are from Muskegon, 
Michigan.  It came to me at a time in my life when I really needed something to 
take my life in a little different direction.  While I didn't really know how 
little it was going to be because it's just been a huge shift in my 
life.
I'll try not to be too repetitive because I 
think the issue of what is sustainability and what are the elements of that have 
been pretty well described; but our position is that it certainly includes many 
things beyond just simply funding, that the competitive process should consider 
the strength of an organization's ties to its community partners, the strength 
of its local leadership, the diversity of its funding sources, its longevity in 
the community, its expansion of the volunteer base, and its ability to secure multiple stakeholders, commitments to diversity, 
and, finally, but probably most importantly, to the impact that the organization 
is able to produce in the community.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  It should be.
MS. KAISER:  Sorry.  I can't pass up the 
opportunity.  I'm Paula Kaiser, and I'm the deputy director of the Michigan 
Commission and have been there for eight years now and actually have been with AmeriCorps 
in helping create the Indiana Commission. I've been with it since the inception, 
so I have some real thoughts and perspectives on this.
But short of testing people to make sure they are adequate tutors, 
our program had many speakers come in to talk about diversity in educational 
settings, ways to teach and tutor and interact with kids on many different 
levels.  And those were there because we had the money to spend on getting 
speakers in who were qualified who not only either donated their time and came 
to talk to us or were paid speakers.  That was very, very helpful, not only 
during my time in AmeriCorps but actually in a future setting.  I've used it in 
my job that I have now as an assistant teacher at OSU.
MS. 
ADKINS:  I just want to share a few thoughts about how some of the current 
guidelines affect West Virginia as a small rural state.  We have had tremendous 
success with AmeriCorps.  We've really been able to address a lot of community 
needs through the programs we've been able to fund; but as the level of federal 
funding decreases, fewer and fewer organizations in our state are able to take 
advantage of AmeriCorps.           Not a lot of organizations in West Virginia 
have the capacity to handle the programmatic and fiscal management that is 
required of AmeriCorps programs. We're a very small, very rural state; and 
there's just not a lot of resources.  The lowered cost per member and the 
increase in living allowance that took effect this year made granting AmeriCorps 
funds in West Virginia particularly hard.
In our city we're 
trying to bring everyone back into Detroit.  We're trying to get people to 
invest in our city.  Our city is about partnerships, and so the thought that 
somehow our success over a period of years would make us eligible to lose that 
partnership is somehow against the promise that was made when it was 
founded.
So with that, David, fire 
away.
MS. MAUK:  Your last 
comment there about your credit card bills, one of my daughters is serving this 
year.  She called this last weekend.  She's in an area where her cell phone is 
on roaming.  So she called and said, "I won't be able to call you, Mom, for the 
next six weeks because I can't afford the roaming charges on my cell 
phone."
Therefore, some of those 
challenges in decreasing the FTE rate, especially as it comes to small 
grass-roots nonprofits, is that less AmeriCorps members actually equates to less 
assistance with program support.  Another thing that is difficult for small 
young nonprofits, such as ourselves, is that sustainable support comes through 
private funders that have a history and track record.
That funding, that 
baseline of support, has allowed us to feel very comfortable that the financial stability of the organization has been there and will 
continue to be there.  I think it's safe to say as we attempted to go out and 
talk with other companies about the City Year organization locally that without 
that solid foundation, without that funding partnership with the government 
sector, our success and our longevity would certainly not be at the level that 
it is today.
MS. 
VAN DER VEER:  Yes.
AmeriCorps 
increases the capacities of organizations to garner both financial and human 
resources.  For those reasons and many more, we know that AmeriCorps works.  Its 
unique qualities and purposes are enduring.  It supports local efforts. It's 
flexible and responsive, and it builds and expands and maintains a national 
service infrastructure that can deal with a myriad of issues.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thank you, Kitty.  Okay. 
David?  Rosie?
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Okay.
People at 
the Corporation, whatever the flaws of the bureaucratic systems that were in 
place were really right on the mark in not wanting to frustrate that desire, 
that impulse, and in doing everything in their power to not disappointment people because that 
desire is one of the most important commodities that any society has.
MR. GLEBOCKI:  Thank you, Gretchen.  Is this on?
And so our goal of 
being when you reached your seventh year, you're going to be at a hundred 
percent of program operations and the only thing you're really getting from us 
is the member support cost at the 85/15 percent rate.
Even with all that outreach this 
year, we only got eight grant applications.  That's due mainly to just the fact 
that not a lot of organizations have the capacity to manage the financial 
liability of running a program.  People just aren't beating down our door for 
these grants because it is hard in such a small state for them to come up with a 
lot of the match money that's required.
I will stop there and make sure you get the other written comments.
MR. EISNER:  Let me ask you a quick 
question. As you use sustainability to cycle some programs through, were you 
able to determine whether the programs that were not able to meet the new 
requirements shared anything in common?  In particular one of the things I'm 
concerned about is whether increasing matching requirements ends up adversely 
affecting the diversity of your programs.
So 
again, the trials and tribulations that we've been through today are a testament 
to how now more than any other in the past decade AmeriCorps is viable and it 
works.  We know that AmeriCorps helps communities engage people in service.  We also know that 
AmeriCorps has a multiple focus in its funding, which both provides a tremendous 
amount of flexibility but also makes it very hard to define.  But this common 
global focus for community change that AmeriCorps members recognize as their 
legacy is vitally important. At the same time, the funding and priorities 
provide a broad enough context for communities and individuals to find 
AmeriCorps useful, relevant, and highly effective.
I'm just exploring whether that is a potential 
avenue.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  
Okay.  I want to say thank you to our first three speakers, if you would kindly 
move to the audience and if I could have Ryan Schmiesing and Maureen Sullivan 
step up to the table in front, please.  Okay.  Ryan, I think Schmiesing is 
before Sullivan in the alphabet; so you're our next speaker.
MS. SULLIVAN:  The 
formula, if I understand it, is linked to full-time equivalence times the dollar 
figure.  And if that figure goes down and significantly continues to go down, 
that impacts very definitely the operating support that is available.
I was very impressed by the gentleman who spoke earlier.  
And when I think about the City Year organization, I think about the young 
people who serve in the corps and the even younger people that the corps members 
serve.
I think to continue to vigorously evaluate programs is really 
important so that we do meet the goals and objectives that are set for our 
programs. Thank you.
I'm a concerned citizen who has 
devoted much of my life to promoting service of young people.  The last several 
years, members of AmeriCorps have performed great services for our (inaudible) 
headquarters; and I could not be more pleased in calling the grandchildren of 
the CCC.
In fact, you should be devoted to promote diversity so that 
America looks like America.  Thank you very much.  I should add one more 
comment.  There's another gentleman here with me that also served in the CCC.  
Steve Penchal (phonetic spelling), please stand. He served two years in 
Utah.
How have we 
tried to sustain ourselves? No. 1, service learning.  Because we are an 
institution of higher education, what we decided to do is focus our AmeriCorps 
national service efforts full time to the summer and focus our partnership 
building during the academic year in the area of linking those services that we 
would have normally provided through our AmeriCorps programs and academic 
departments.
So it becomes challenging.  But I think one of the things 
we have found is it takes more work for us as program managers to work with our 
partners and help them define what the outcomes are for their members and then 
individually attract those members and then have the skills to look at the 
outcomes and pull together the commonality, which is what we find ourselves 
doing.
As Kris just explained, they can't even support 
a full-time director at ten FTEs.  We just ran this process to select new 
grantees, and we'll be submitting some of them for competitive funding.  We 
can't get somebody at ten FTEs to come in and meet the 12/4.  That's the 
reality.  They can barely even meet a thousand dollars over that at this point 
in time.  So the reality is if we have to force programs to grow bigger, a lot 
of communities are not going to have the opportunity to apply.
Appalachians actually have the highest dropout 
rate, but there are more African-Americans because there are more 
African-Americans in the system as dropouts; but both communities are 
tremendously impacted.
MR. EISNER:  Thank you.
I guess the basic point to come back to is that if 
we're talking about fundamental issues of sustainability or matching grants, I 
don't know that in communities in which we fund that if there are significant 
changes in that that those programs will be with us in a reasonable 
forum.
Thereupon, at 4:58 p.m., on Monday, March 
15, 2004, the meeting was concluded.
If I could use a story I 
once heard, if you took all the assets of all the foundations in this country 
and combined them in a giant pool and ran the federal government from that pool, 
you'd run out of money in just a few months, just to give you a scale of 
possibility here.
Kathryn Curry, however, you signed up.  Why 
don't you come on up and join these two.  Okay.  Mary, you're next.
My comments will 
also focus on sustainability, and for our commission this is a really difficult issue.  We certainly believe in the 
public/private partnership that has been the foundation for AmeriCorps.  We know 
that in Ohio, and as in other states, there are geographic areas with high needs 
and few local resources to help address them.  So how can you possibly stop a 
program that is such a Godsend to that geographic area?
And 
the final thing I'll just say is in regard to continuation applications.  We 
have a nationally funded environmental program.  The National Institute of Enviromental Health Sciences funds a project that UAC has, and they go through a 
process called the SNAP process.  I think SNAP stands for simplified 
noncompetitive application process.
Thanks very much for your 
time.
Let 
me start by introducing myself.  I'm David Weiss.  I'm really here serving 
multiple roles today.  I am the board chair of City Year Columbus, part of the 
national City Year organization now up to 15 sites, 17 to 24 year-olds serving 
in their communities.
Let's 
see.  Page 3, 4, and 5. Government-funded CCC.  I think what makes AmeriCorps great is it is a public/private partnership.  As someone 
who has raised funds for service programs, I can tell you that the President of 
the United States has indicated he totally approves AmeriCorps.
But the answer is yes.  I do think there is 
a way of doing it.
We've heard a lot today from large institutions.  Let me give 
you a picture of what this means to small grass-roots, community-based 
organizations and what the FTE rate challenges us and how that challenges us.  
Volunteer Muskegon actually had a set of AmeriCorps members from a national 
parent organization that helped us to carry out our mission.
States have those flagship 
programs also.  We have one in our state.  It's called Energy Express that was 
created because we were returning child nutrition money back to the federal 
government every year because it was too much trouble to run these 
programs.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thank you, Donna.  Before our 
next speaker, David Weiss, begins, I just want to say to my colleagues and to 
everyone that we have nine speakers left and we have an hour to go.  So while we 
want to make sure that you all get what you need from each speaker, we'd like to 
hear from each speaker as well.
Some of our 
sites continued stipend volunteers.  Some of them created and hired new staff 
positions as a result of this.  Part-time positions have now grown to other 
things.
MS. MAUK:  Kitty, I have made myself a note 
that I was going to ask one of you when you got up here; so I'll ask you.  When 
I heard Kyle talking about some of the sustainability work they're doing in 
Michigan and on our conference call on Friday, some folks in California said to 
us, "You know, there's only three programs in the state of California funded by 
the Commission that have been funded from the beginning." So a lot of programs 
in California.
MR. GLEBOCKI:  Thanks.
MS. ADKINS:  Hi.  I'm Leslie Adkins.  I'm a program officer 
at the West Virginia Commission.  I just want to apologize, first of all, for 
reading this. I actually hadn't planned on speaking today; and then about a half 
hour prior to the meeting, I thought, if I drove three and a half hours and 
missed the opportunity, then I'd really kick myself later.
MR. ODENBRETT:  Let me face the 
panel.  And, Jeff, thank you for what you just said because I think it's a 
really segway to my comments.  My name is Glenn, two Ns, Odenbrett.  For the 
past ten years, I've been the director of the Office of Community Service at 
Case Western Reserve University.
A little more about the 
state of Ohio.  Let's see.  This whole sheet was designed for 20 minutes so I've got to cut it to 5.  My view is your responsibility 
in Washington should be to sustain effective programs when they face 
cancellation because of state budget cuts.
MS. SMYTH:  Thanks for the 
opportunity to share.  My name is Donna Smyth.  I work for Public Allies 
Cincinnati.  I've worked there for the last four years in the role of a program 
manager and now currently the director of our continuous learning 
element.
MR. EISNER:  Thank you.  Having spent a long 
time myself running a foundation, I know that it's considered generally best 
practice for any ground-making organization to understand what's called an exit 
strategy prior to making the grant.
So I think that's what I 
wanted to say. Thank you very much for coming here to Ohio.
MS. MAUK:  And just one other follow-up. When you were 
talking about the difficulty of connecting your three summers, would the fact 
that, you know, we're having some conversations in rulemaking about would 
three-year grants really be -- you have your grant for three years and you're 
not recompeting what it seems to be like for -- some folks seem to think that 
every year is as difficult as the year before; and so as we continue to have 
some more open dialogue around that, would that help the situation that you find 
yourself in in trying to put together performance measurements year after year?
That has 
worked out wonderful in theory until the summer of 2003.  You heard Kyle 
Caldwell say that in Michigan for every segmented volunteer, we raise 
approximately 27 nonsegmented volunteers.  With our program, for every 
AmeriCorps member, we recruit almost 200 youth volunteers.
Because 
Volunteer Muskegon is only eight years old and our AmeriCorps program is less 
than four years old, we are just setting base on our track record.  Therefore, 
it's been very difficult for us to receive private donations because we're still 
working on the community getting to know our name and what our mission 
is.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thank you, 
Jeff.
MR. CALDWELL:  Absolutely, and I have to because we have a policy that leads just to that issue. 
And over the course of six to nine years, we move programs off of all of the 
admin functions and only provide member support costs to programs, the living 
allowance and the ed work and then some of the underwriting for training as 
necessary.
MR. EISNER:  We are talking about playing 
with the calendar maybe a little better.
So either they're going to work locally -- sometimes they work without our 
funding because there is that intense interest and need for it.  Other times 
it's because there is none.  I mean, people don't want it.  They don't need it.  
And other times it just hasn't worked because the personalities and culture 
hasn't been ripe.
By 
cutting our share, it's our community partners that will be cut.  Last year 84 
percent of our partner organizations reported that they would be able to sustain 
our member impacts.
And although it would be very nice to have some kind of 
educational award that went along with how fast OSU is increasing their tuition, 
that may not be a reasonable expectation of AmeriCorps.  And I think that people 
don't really care because this is something they really want to do.
MS. BURCSU:  You're welcome.
And in 
collaboration, these partners said that we don't want any one organization to 
assume the majority of these costs.  Therefore, our sustainability 
plan is going to be to divide our local match for the federal grant and divide 
it by our FTE and prorate it so that each one of our partner sites pays that 
local match essentially that covers everything from the administrative costs of 
the grant to the program costs to the member support costs.
Our program is a partnership between Ohio State University 
Extension 4-H Youth Development and the Department of Human and Community Resource Development 
at The Ohio State University.  We focus on teen vehicular safety and general 
public awareness of vehicular safety within communities across Ohio.  OSU 
Extension operates in all 88 counties in the state.  We have a network of 
people, nearly 30,000 volunteers across the state.  So we have a pretty good 
structure network within to operate.
MR. EISNER:  Thank you very much.  
On advice of my colleagues, I'm cutting down on the questions.
Along with that, 
the timing of the cycle is frustrating because Congress never seems to approve 
funding in time for implementation of the programs. I'm guessing there's not a 
lot you can do about that.
MS. 
SULLIVAN:  Yes, I believe it does.  And can I say just one other thing?  Okay.  
Yes, I believe it does.
Do I have any takers?  Don't 
be shy.  Okay. Paula.
But I will try to summarize our efforts of 
sustainability over the last ten years along with our expansion.  It's something 
I'm going to call the sustainability shuffle, and the reason I'm calling it that 
is because it's kind of like an intricate dance with many moves to music that keeps changing it seems 
every few bars; and that has been a challenge for us.
MS. BURCSU:  You're welcome.  We're really 
glad that you came to Ohio.  This isn't the work of one person.  Obviously the 
staff of the Ohio Community Service Council, the State Office, and your staff 
made this happen.  We're glad to be part of it, and we're glad you're 
here.
Thank you, Gretchen.
Because of the factors that I just was mentioning that I think 
the AmeriCorps folks should be considering in sustaining their support of these 
many organizations, we at National City feel very strongly that the impact of 
the organization to the local community, the value of developing youth 
leadership, many other things that are tremendously important, the point being 
that our support would not have been sustained for that long a period of time 
without the partnership from the public sector.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thank you, Jeff.  Okay. I'm going to go to 
Rosie and to David for questions.
So I guess if what we are really talking about is 
changing the fundamental set of relationships, then that's a different 
discussion that I think entails a whole lot more than what we're talking about 
today. I'm not sure if I'm reading into that or not.
But since I just 
spoke, I'll give you an opportunity to respond; and then we should probably wrap 
up.
I would actually prefer to have 
a lot of that done before engaging in the rulemaking process for the exact 
reason that you point out.  It's pretty hard to focus on these rule changes when 
we're sort of not meeting our own obligations, and yet this is where we are.  So 
thank you for pointing that out.
(Opening remarks.)
Not only did we train our members in those types 
of things, we had, in terms of sustainability, workshops with our own site 
directors from across the state.  We required sustainability plans.  We also 
looked at sustainability in terms of a couple things.
We have kind of 
three points I want to make in regards to the rulemaking process.  The first one 
is we want to emphasize Public Allies, the importance of a full-time service and 
stipends.  We work really hard to get diverse classes of young people; and we're 
able to do that because we offer a decent, livable wage to those young people 
and are able to recruit the single parents.  50 percent of our members are 
college grads; 50 percent are not college grads.  The full-time service and 
stipends offers up the opportunity to support a vast array of young 
people.
MR. EISNER:  Can you just give like three sentences on what 
that sustainability plan entails?
MS. BOTTOMLEY:  Thank you very much for having us come and be able to talk with you today.  I am 
Martha Bottomley, and I am a former AmeriCorps member.  It's kind of amazing to 
me that I am the first one to be able to say that.
I ask you to really think.  I 
want to be held accountable for outcomes.  I will give you statistics. I will 
give you the numbers.  We will do the surveys. We will produce the outcomes.  
And I like that.  I think it sharpens our focus and makes us do what we all 
agree must be done.  But we'd like to continue the partnership as a way to make 
it strong.
For example, philanthropy has a limited financial capacity but 
greater flexibility and use of its funds.  Philanthropy is better suited to 
assist start-ups and smaller organizations, may be better suited for funding 
program evaluation, research, planning, new program design, and promotion of 
best practice.
There were a couple of painful elements too. First of all, on my 
ankle.  Every time I asked a question, I was getting kicked.  But more 
importantly, even though three hours sounds like a long period of time, it still 
feels like a lot of the questions were dealt with at a very superficial level.  
It's hard.
Attached to my statement, 
my written statement, you'll also find documents from the Save AmeriCorps Coalition that both herald the process that 
we're engaging and thanks the Corporation and its leadership for opening up this 
dialogue and making it a truly meaningful and transparent process.
To speak to a point I think that Rosie mentioned, we 
only have 2 programs in our state that have been with us since the inception; 
and at one point our portfolio was as large as 26.  This year we're at 13.  
So that just gives you some perspective that our own sustainability policy has 
cycled some folks out because they simply weren't able to meet that increased 
cash match over time and so they were just simply forced to not 
reapply.
This program has 90 sites in our state.  In one of the 
poorest states in the nation, our state legislature gives this program $500,000 
a year.  It exemplifies this kind of public/private partnership.
Secondly, 
that's a very good sort of segway to partner contributions.  That's supposed to 
be another -- for those of us who run kind of umbrella programs, that's supposed 
to be another way of sustaining ourselves.  As a program which serves as an administrative umbrella for community-based nonprofits who 
do not have the capacity to host AmeriCorps on their own, one might expect that 
our partners would be very willing to make contributions toward sustainability; 
and they do in every sense but a fiscal one.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Great.  Thank you.  Jean, you're 
next.  I'm sorry.  David, did you have anything?
Finally, as a group that already exceeds our matching 
requirement and one that has grown over the past few years to meet the demand of 
our organizations and our young people, we hope that AmeriCorps can define 
sustainability in broader ways than just cutting the Corporation's per-member contribution.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thank you, Maureen.  That was great.  
Any follow-up?
As you may know, the independent sector has 
recently compared five of their biennial surveys on volunteering and giving and has found that households that 
give and volunteer donate at more than twice the rate of households that only 
give, 2.6 percent of annual income as opposed to 1.2 percent of annual income.  
This knowledge is extremely valuable for the local nonprofit organizations 
looking for local funds for their quality-of-life programs.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thank you very 
much, Donna.
I want to really 
talk about two things in my remarks; and one of them is to make the case that 
AmeriCorps works, which may sound as though I'm preaching to the choir, but I 
think it's important to bring that up, especially in the initial conversations 
of rulemaking.  And again, I want to focus on Michigan, if I can, because that's the one state I know the most 
about.
I talked about more 
rigorous sustainability planning in the support networks and the requirement of 
a more comprehensive evaluation plan.  All of this, again, occurred by what I 
believe -- and now I'm four years removed from the program or five -- the 
intense need for us at the time for a higher quality of technical assistance and 
support from the federal, the state, and the local communities.
AMERICORPS RULEMAKING SESSION
As the Corporation examines current rules and looks to define future rules, 
please remember that this program is truly implemented at the local level and is 
administered by the states.  Keep the rules as broad in scope as possible while 
satisfying the congressional and executive branches who fund it.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Go ahead, David.  This is so 
hard for David.  He wants to engage everyone, and he's doing a really good 
job.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thank you, Jean.  Leslie, 
Martha, and Kris, come on up to the table.  Larry Meade, Mary Steele, and 
Maureen Drummond, please come on down front.  Okay.  Leslie, you are the first 
speaker.
The cost per member coupled 
with the increases in living allowance and health care leaves very little to 
actually operate and manage the programs in West Virginia.  There's not a lot of 
money to go around; and with the lower cost per member, it left so much less 
money in the operating costs of the budget to actually run and manage the 
program and provide the training and the members as necessary.
Part two of your --
MS. ADKINS:  Yeah.  We actually do 
increase the match after three years of funding just in operating costs.  The 
same 15 percent is required in the actual member costs.  In addition to that, 
with our competitive programs, we're retaining 1 percent of their admin funds to 
provide technical assistance on developing sustainability plans.  We've actually 
brought on outside consultants, campaign consultants, to work with the 
programs.
I'd ask that also AmeriCorps 
programs and policy makers not work from a perspective of division or 
subtraction or elimination but think of this as an additive process and that the 
performance measures, grant cycles, and the reporting burdens be looked at from 
an additive process that seeks to free up grantees and free up organizations to 
do their work and to look at all the support that's been given to AmeriCorps 
through the 700 voices in AmeriCorps, the 228 members of Congress, and many more 
who have said that this program works and is important.
I've been the executive director 
of the West Virginia commission since 1994.  I came on a week before the first AmeriCorps launch.  I used to have dark 
hair, which I don't have now, and I had more of it at that time.
MS. SULLIVAN:  Well, before I start introducing 
myself, I'm really nervous.  I even put my name down on this sheet of paper.  In 
addition to that, I was even more nervous when I realized I was the only woman 
on the panel.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thank you.  Any 
follow-up, Rosie?  David?
Michigan ran similar programs; and the fellows and girls 
acquired some tremendous education, learned software.  They learn to use 
software, create hardware, create products, the huge golf signs you see, signs of golf courses and private business.  In Michigan 
you see them all over.  They are produced by the CCC.
Thank you very much.
MR. EISNER:  We've heard a few speakers talk about this last 
point you raised.  If we take as an assumption that the issue is not sort of black or white 
whether you continue support but rather the level of support, do you think for a 
Public Allies or a City Year or Energy Express, is there a legitimate discussion 
about whether over the course of three years, six years, nine years, the level 
of federal support for the program should be decreased to that level?
4, eliminate 
deregulations policies and processes that limit the possibilities of national 
service programs working together.  Provide some incentives to try out new ideas 
and ways of working in tandem.  One more.  Be proactive in educating national 
policy makers about the true costs associated with maintaining a trained and 
committed contingent of volunteers to serve in conjunction with or after 
AmeriCorps members have concluded their services.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Okay.  Thank you.  Our next 
speaker is Maureen Sullivan from the Urban Appalachian Council.  But before she 
begins, I'm going to ask Kitty Burcsu, Charles Varro, and Maile Doyle to come up 
here and sit in the front row because as soon as Maureen is done, I'm going to 
ask for Maureen and Ryan to cycle off and those three to cycle up to the table.  Okay.  Thank you.  Maureen, go ahead.
No. 
1, we believe it's a fallacy to believe that an organization or community can 
sustain an AmeriCorps program model without federal dollars.  If it is the 
AmeriCorps program model and the national service presence that is paramount, 
then the federal dollars must always be there.  If it's the services that 
those AmeriCorps members provide we want to keep, then we need to focus on how 
to preserve them.
The Gund Foundation is the largest private foundation in 
the state and has a long history of supporting service and service learning.  
Examples of the outstanding organizations and programs that we have supported 
over the years include City Year Cleveland, RSVP, Ohio Campus Compact, The Youth Philanthropy and 
Service Program at Case, and the Northeast Ohio Student Environmental Congress.  
We believe that each of these have made and continue to make valuable 
contributions to the civic health of our city and our state.
I served three years in CCC 
and '39 through '41 followed by four years in the military in New Guinea, 
Philippines.  I also completed -- I should say pursued my additional education 
at the University of Pittsburgh through the GI bill.  40 years in private sector 
followed.
In the above-captioned matter before 
Mr. David Eisner, Ms. Rosie Mauk, and Ms. Gretchen Van der Veer, taken before Margaret A. 
Marsh, a Registered Professional Reporter and Notary 
Public in and for the State of Ohio, at the Hyatt 
Regency Columbus, 350 North High Street, McKinley 
Room, Columbus, Ohio, commencing on Monday, March 
15, 2004, at 2:29 p.m..
The professional hat I wore more recently for eight years is 
that of a volunteer center director helping to build the capacity of my local 
community to engage our citizens in traditional volunteering both as 
organizational and administrative volunteers.  Our center also hosted an AmeriCorps promise fellow for four 
years to build an ethic of youth asset development in our community.  The local 
cash match came from county government, schools, and civic organizations with 
most of the in-kind match coming from the volunteer center's 
organization.
MS. BURCSU:  With states 
doing their own --
MR. ODENBRETT:  I'll be happy to expand on that.
I do think that it provides more community value, and I do 
think that it expands the ability of the program; but what I'm worried about -- maybe you 
weren't saying this.  But what I do worry about dealing with this topic from 
that lens is that you begin to say no longer federal; now it's somebody else's 
turn.
MR. CALDWELL:  Please.
MS. STEELE:  Thank you.  I'm Mary Steele.  I chair the Iowa Commission on 
Volunteer Service.  Adam Longsberry (phonetic spelling), our ED, had planned to 
be here.  Just a few minutes before the session started, I found out that he did 
not get off the ground in Des Moines; but he was kind enough to fax me some 
notes.  So I'll defer a little bit from the previous speakers who spoke with 
eloquence and were very articulate, and I'll go to my nuts-and-bolts list 
here.
So I 
will caution you to say just because you increase match requirements does not 
necessarily mean it leads to sustainability think.  We have to begin to think 
about, well, will we change our policy to think more of that percentage has to 
be cash rather than just in-kind? because we haven't looked at that issue 
yet.
All of my comments relate to sustainability, capacity building, and to the issue 
of associated performance measures.  I can't cover all of those things, so I do 
plan to submit some written comments with respect to certain other things and 
focus on the sustainability issue for purposes of today's hearing because I know 
it's a concern for all of the other grantees who are here as well.
I was meeting with the National Association of Service and 
Conservation Corps when a couple hundred of them came to Washington.  They 
proposed that although a couple of years ago they wanted outcome measures to be 
completely grass roots, so basically defined community by community, that now 
they were asking us to standardize outcomes more so that among the social and 
service conservation corps they could start rolling up their outcomes and say, 
"Here's what all of our corps are doing," which they could only do if we're asking for standardized outcomes.
MR. EISNER:  Well, I think there's a lot of 
different problems.  But overall getting this issue to catch the kind of 
momentum that I think Congress and the President and our board of directors is 
expecting against the dollars.
And then 
they said, "Look" -- and this is when we were in fat times -- "you need to make 
an appeal process that is fair, fluid, and responsive in case the context in the 
community as well as overall national service changes."  And we've done 
that.
MR. EISNER:  I just want to thank you for calling the 
SNAP process to our attention.  I also want to thank you for your very eloquent 
description of how to start thinking of these members as a pipeline for future 
professionals in our field, which is really important.
Rosie, anything else you want to add?
And so the question is:  How do we begin to think about ways of 
moving the sustainability discussion forward?
We believe that lasting service impacts are the 
best way to define sustainability, and I think that good evidence of that is 
that 80 percent of our members after they serve as a Public Ally continue to 
serve in careers in the nonprofit sector as well as 78 percent of our alumni 
reporting that they continue in their volunteer activity.
What I will tell you 
in some of the lessons that we've learned by increasing the match requirement 
doesn't necessarily lead to sustainability because programs become savvy enough 
to create more and more in-kind resources to meet that increased match, and what 
we thought our policy would do would be to see decreases in the amount of 
federal dollars they were requesting because they would begin to pick up more of 
those moneys with cash and not through just saying, "Oh, we weren't counting 
this as in-kind so all of you supervisors out there now, 5 percent of your time 
will now be counted so we can move to that next level of match."
MR. EISNER:  I understand that, and one of the challenges I 
think we've got in figuring out how to move the rulemaking process forward is to 
get folks a little less scared of slippery slopes.  We're going to be in the 
middle in some of these places.
MR. VARRO:  Thank 
you.
Now, as you debate this, I ask that you respect 
the efforts we as a state commission are making to encourage and work toward 
sustainable services and not impose a one-size-fits-all sustainability 
requirement on either the state commissions or on the individual AmeriCorps 
programs under consideration for competitive funding.  Sensitivity and 
flexibility are key.
The Corporation ran into problems over the last 
year and a half because of the great desire of Americans to come forward and 
make a commitment to serve their country.  The desire to do one's part, to give 
back is one of the foundations of strong communities and a democracy.  It's 
critical to the development of leadership in a democracy.
MR. GLEBOCKI:  David, Rosie, and 
Gretchen, I appreciate the opportunity to participate in this important set of 
conversations about AmeriCorps and the future of community and national service 
in this country.  David, some of the questions you just had for Kyle I think 
I'll be touching on from the foundation perspective.  Perhaps we can chat about 
that in a few moments in greater detail.
MR. EISNER:  Whether there is 
-- I guess the question would be, given your answer to Part 1, whether it makes 
sense for the Corporation to likewise be finding a way on a case-by-case basis 
to understand where it is and where it is not appropriate to have an exit 
strategy.
And I would encourage -- we've had -- can I just 
say two or three more things?  We've had through the GE Fund and the United 
Media, the United Way of America, and AmeriCorps just two or three years of 
match that came through that GE Fund kind of relationship.           And it 
seems to me -- and this also, I guess, isn't a rule; but it would be more work 
for you to go out and to really build those kinds of partnerships, those kinds 
of relationships that would help offset the federal but would also be more than 
the local somehow or other.
Would you think even if it's a small amount, would you think 
there's a fairness in saying that a matching requirement for an organization in 
its fourth year of operation could be higher than for an organization in its 
first year of operation?
I believe we should ensure that AmeriCorps resources are 
allotted and allow the largest number of individuals with diverse backgrounds to 
serve through a high-quality full-time/part-time program.  Everybody deserves 
the opportunity to serve his or her country.
I have a lot more to say, but I've run out 
of time.
MS. 
VAN DER VEER:  Thank you.  Obviously there are a lot of people in this room that 
care very deeply about this program; and for those of us who came 
from Washington, it makes us think that we want to keep doing what we do in 
Washington because it has a purpose out here in the rest of America.
MS. 
STEELE:  The Corporation does not meet their own deadlines, which results in 
much frustration among commissions and programs that puts commissions in the 
awkward position with formula funding and results in many confusing 
messages.
I'm also the executive direct of Volunteer Muskegon, which is a 
volunteer center.  We have -- and Kyle will tell you.  He kids me all the time 
that I run a mini corporation because we also have an RSVP program.  We've had 
Learn and Serve grants.  We currently have a Learn and Serve grant, and we will 
be getting two VISTA members very soon.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thank you.  Any 
follow-up?
MR. EISNER:  
Both.
Virtually all of my discussions of this topic with staff, either at headquarters 
or at the state council, have gotten the impression the operating definition of 
sustainability is almost exclusively financial.  In other words, no matter what 
else is happening programatically with respect to (inaudible) 
community to address community needs or even continue to meet needs at historic 
levels in the face of the draft of budget cuts and revenue shortages that most 
community-based organizations are facing, the bottom line with respect to 
sustainability always seems to be: What is the plan to shift as much of the 
fiscal support for your activities as possible from the Corporation to other 
sources, and how quickly can you make that happen?
So I just think those are primarily the 
things.  The other thing I'll just add because I think this is an important 
question you asked, we require that the minimum amount of FTEs that a program 
can apply for is ten FTEs; and we did that many years ago because we thought 
that there were some cost deficiencies that you just can't meet unless you are 
at least ten FTEs.  Now we're beginning to find that that is even too low.
MR. EISNER:  Thank you.  That was extremely thoughtful, 
and we really appreciate the work that the Commission and the State Office is 
doing on some of these issues; and I'm particularly sensitive to your request 
that we not do something that mandates how you move forward in your discussions 
about sustainability.
MR. CALDWELL:  Well, you know, the 
easy answer is yes; but you begin to go down a slippery slope that I'm not sure 
that I want to engage in and that is that by answering that question in the 
affirmative, it also leads to the notion that there should be substantially 
reduced or reduced federal support.  And my notion is that the federal 
investment has to be there in order for the leveraging to occur.
Having said all that, 
though, again, I think if you look at the mechanisms you already have in place, 
you can deal with this pretty easily.  You have state-unified plans in place 
that states are having to live with, and part of that talked about how you were 
going to kind of move the field forward.
MR. EISNER:  Let me just 
particularly thank you for pointing out the places where the Corporation has 
work to do to catch up with commitments its made in the past.  These are things 
that we are really, really focused on.
I'll submit a lot of this because I do want to make 
just a couple of more points.  For organizations sponsoring these programs, it 
takes a while to learn the system.  Then it takes a while to get like the 
resources all martialled and get good at it.  Just when you're really getting to 
the point of excellence, whoops, it may be that, you know, you're out.  And so 
it just seems to me that there needs to be something else.
I'm trying to be very tactful when I say it's really 
exciting to think about how that can really continue for a lifetime and that the 
need that our country has to sustain this democracy is really dependent 
on citizens participating, and this private and public partnership makes that 
happen.
MS. 
DOYLE:  You're not allowed to ask any questions?  Okay.
MS. 
VAN DER VEER:  Okay.  That was the last of our speakers who signed up in 
advance.  I'm looking at my watch.  I'm seeing that we have about 15 minutes 
left.  We have some wrap-up comments, but let's say we could hear from maybe one 
more.  So if there is anyone who didn't sign up in advance who is feeling the 
spirit move, this is your final chance.
MS. BAILER:  Hi.  Thank 
you.  I'm Penny Bailer.  I have the great privilege of serving as the executive 
director of City Year Detroit.  I've been in that role for two and a half 
years.  Before that I was a board member.  I come here to say that I'm so sorry 
that so many of my board members could not come who wanted to be here.  They 
will definitely write to you.
Finally, the principles ask that we 
think locally and allow state commissions and parent organizations to make 
quality decisions on how best to garner all the available resources in the 
public and private sectors to support national service in communities based on 
what works and not on arbitrary or what can be perceived as arbitrary 
formulas.
I appreciate all the speakers particularly who 
focused not just on trying to hold a position but rather sort of helping us 
carve through how we begin to make some decisions.  I haven't figured out 
exactly how to take these conversations.
We as a commission, when evaluating a program's 
progress in achieving sustainability, must focus on progress in 
institutionalizing or finding alternative ways of maintaining the services 
provided by the AmeriCorps members and securing the financial and human 
resources needed to do that.  The technical assistance that we provide must 
likewise be focused.
I'll be honest with you.  In some counties it did not continue.  But then we asked our question: Should 
it have continued in those counties?  If it didn't continue, perhaps there 
wasn't a need in that particular community.  We let them decide that for all 
intents and purposes.
MR. EISNER:  What would you have done 
different now?  Looking back on it, would there have been things that you would 
you have done differently in terms of your sustainability plan?
MR. 
EISNER:  Thank you very much.
Now, I can use an 
example.  I mentioned City Year Cleveland, which we've been with since its inception in the mid-'90s and we've stayed with for each 
year.  I don't know that we -- in fact, I can say we do not have an exit 
strategy with City Year Cleveland and hope to stay at the table with this valued 
and important organization.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  I didn't count 
that time against you, Maureen.  Keep going.
Also we feel our hardline approach 
in three years and we're done was the appropriate way for us. It forced us to 
look at sustainability in a different way.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thank you, Maile.  Go ahead, David.
And so I think what needs to happen is that -- and I'm 
not saying this is the Gund Foundation's response necessarily, but I've heard 
from other people that that sometimes has happened.  The response is not 
universally yes.  This needs to be a partnership with national service.  What 
we've heard is, "That would change the way we make our grants, and it's too 
difficult."
So we have 
a funding limitation policy.  We require sustainability plans; and, quite 
honestly, we're still struggling.  But as we do, several thoughts, several ideas 
have emerged that are helping to guide our thinking in this area.
Together they ran their feeding program, their weekly feeding program, their after-school tutoring 
program.  So we believe that full-time service people do a really good job of 
investing in and supporting community volunteers who come to 
organizations.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Okay.  The next speaker is Kathryn Curry.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  I will be glad, Kyle, to say "yellow" if you 
are in need.
It 
seems to me that what we're hoping for, what we're praying for, what we're 
moving to is transformational service.  Something happens in the lives of those 
individual persons that causes them to realize just what they get back out of 
it, what they give.  I mean, the whole thing that the gentleman was talking 
about this morning, that capturing of our -- that capturing of their initiative 
and their energy.
Traditionally it's been the private sector that has acted as 
the seed money; and then the public sector has over time, depending on what 
subject area we're talking about, become the sustaining funder.  If 
we're talking about changing that fundamental set of relationships, that is an 
entirely different discussion and really does -- I'll go back to my analogy.  It 
does change this funding ecology in a way in which at this point in history I 
don't know that holds great promise or hope.
MS. STEELE:  Great.  In 
addition, the inconsistency of grant deadlines, awards, and so forth is not 
conducive to encouraging new applicants.  Now please don't kill the messenger 
here.
MS. MAUK:  Just one really 
quick question. In thinking about all the different ways this might look, what 
we're hearing from some folks is, you know, maybe what worked for you all means 
there's a certain kind of model that certainly your organization isn't the only 
one.
In fact, in Lansing, Michigan, you'll see a large chart identifying the whole 
public square built by the CC in color form.  It's a beautiful product which 
brings a tremendous education to young people. We shouldn't let that go to 
waste.  Some federal money could help that program along, reconstruct 
it.
The next thing that I want to bring up that's happening in the 
state of Michigan is the unemployment issue.  Many states do not have to pay 
unemployment for their AmeriCorps members.  However, there was something that 
happened this summer to our AmeriCorps members that actually overruled that.  So 
now on top of the FTE rate, we are now having to pay unemployment taxes and 
benefits for our AmeriCorps members, which, then again, reduces the costs that 
we have to support our programs. This is a big issue for us.
You know, again, as we think through sending clearer messages, perhaps, about the effects and the 
impacts of the AmeriCorps program to the folks that live up the street from us 
in Congress, again, I'm hearing some data and facts that obviously we don't ask 
you all to report; and in a world where we're trying to ask you to report less, 
I'm just sort of struck by that we need to figure out how we get some of the 
information that you all are holding -- and I don't mean holding in a bad way -- 
but that you hold that would be very beneficial for us.  So thanks.
PROCEEDINGS
I like to be able to identify stories of how 
we had a tutored student who is now a Young Hero or a Young Hero who is now a 
corps member, and I never really thought about it extending beyond the corps to 
perhaps citizen.
MS. COLLEE:  We have 13 full time, 2 part time, 
and 6 summer-only AmeriCorps members that allowed us to support 1 full-time 
staff person.
Okay.  
Jean, you are next on my list.  I'm sorry.  Kitty.  Jean is next.  I glanced at 
the list that I just called up.  Kitty, you are next.
We would really have a hard time placing our members in 
our nonprofit organizations, which is what we do.  We really -- the host site is 
where our program director is located.  That's Kris.  And we kind of subgrant 
out our AmeriCorps members to other nonprofit agencies.  Then they come 
together, and that's our team.  We feel that in many ways we've kind of maxed 
them out, but we know that the need is there; and all of our members work with 
youth in-service learning. I'm not going steal all that Kris wants to 
say.
Everyone who wants to serve is not able to serve 
in the military.  And at its best, I believe national service represents the 
same kind of sacrifice and commitment that military service does and it's aware 
that the next generation of leadership is going to emerge in our country in the 
21st century.
In fact, one of our benefactors is a former CC man, Bill Frazier 
(phonetic spelling), spent a whole year up in Michigan, became a minister 
later.  He then was able to go across Michigan and collect $35,000, a grant from 
private industry.  With that he started a statue program to further another 
legacy to establish the CCC, and to date we have 20 statues 
established.
And so we have been working with our programs for 
several years around this, and let me just provide some perspective because I 
think you're really interested in some of the policies that have been put in 
place.  We allow a program when it enters into our portfolio three years at your 
normal match requirements, meaning 85/15 for member support cost and then 67/33 
for the program operational costs.
But at the 
same time, I believe that we, as a state commission, have an obligation to make 
sure that other communities who want to utilize AmeriCorps members to address 
their most pressing needs have access to these resources too.  While we 
certainly don't want to get rid of an existing good program, I believe we have 
the responsibility to help create many more good programs.
You talked about stable funding.  And the question is:  Is there any portion of 
the federal funding that you can think of as start-up energy and some other set 
of the funding that you would think of as stable support?  Or would you say that 
whatever level it starts at it should continue at indefinitely?
Help us to dispel 
that notion that volunteers are free.  Thank you again for coming to Ohio.
MS. COLLEE:  We drove six hours so 
we figured we would both get up here.  My name is Kris Collee, and I am the 
AmeriCorps program director for our Volunteer Muskegon AmeriCorps; and I am a 
former AmeriCorps member as well serving with the agency's with Youth Volunteer 
Corps.
The 
fact that member costs can only be matched with federal funds is also very hard 
on our state because most of the money that's available in a small state is from 
federal sources.  With funding decreases it seems reasonable that the 
restrictions and requirements should go down.  With the education awards 
program in particular, it's really hard to expect programs to meet all the 
guidelines when they're only given $400 to do that with.
Michigan has 
had a policy in place around our sustainability.  About four or five years ago, 
we began to have a discussion at the commission level about what kind of grant 
maker do we want to be and to be very intentional with the limited amount of 
resources that we have.  How do we want to utilize and share those resources 
across the state?
Well, I urge 
you to be sensitive to diversity in all forms:  Geographic, racial, ethnic, and 
socioeconomic and suggest no change in the program that makes AmeriCorps less 
diverse.
We 
believe that programs like Energy Express, City Year, Public Allies are national 
treasures and that they are well-oiled machines that should be permitted to 
continue at some basic level, as has been discussed, of being able to continue 
to leverage that support.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thanks for the warning.
MS. CURRY:  Okay.  Well, like she 
said, I'm Kathryn Curry.  You'll have to excuse me.  I just had a really large 
coffee, and I'm a little jittery.  I'm an AmeriCorps alumni; and I guess before 
these two other ladies from Michigan came up here, I was beginning to think that 
I was the only person in the room that was an AmeriCorps alumni.  Nothing more 
important than that.
First of all, it would be an incentive for 
recruitment.  It would be an incentive for member retention.  And it would seem 
to me that with the increasing costs even at state colleges for tuition, every 
year there's an increase, there's an increase, there's an increase, there needs 
to be some justice looking at what the ed awards are.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thank you very much, Jean.
I think that the issue here 
isn't -- I think the issue here is we're not talking about shrinking the 
government's contribution.  We're thinking about as we move into a world where 
we're going to say no several times for every time we're going to say yes, what 
should our obligation be for disbursing those funds?
Maybe we could continue to have some dialogue about what is it 
that was unique about your organization that that worked and look around the 
country and see others that look the same.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Maile.
MS. MAUK:  
Thanks.
They work with the AmeriCorps members and say, "That's what I 
want to do when I get to be 18, and I know I can help pay my college expenses 
with that ed award."  So it's a really worthwhile program in building 
leadership, building capacity in our communities.
Our current program has been restructured so that it covers all of those areas, 
is going to be focused on full-time summer service, and is currently four times 
larger than the first program that we had funded in 1994.  So needless to say, 
along with that expansion have come some associated additional costs.
CCC alumni have worked very hard to enact AmeriCorps in 
1993.  A guy by the name of Leon Panetta (phonetic spelling) and so forth set 
the stage and had been in process for several years prior to that and eventually 
became effective, as you know, in 1994. More than 350,000 (inaudible) service opportunity 
resulting in (inaudible) impacts and outcomes, strong community partnerships, 
improved service delivery, and a wealth of programming expertise.
Let's see.  I'm 
reading off of my stuff. Here also we have these monthly meetings and regrouping of ideas in order to share experiences, successes, and 
failures of what really worked with tutoring kids; and I think that's another 
way.  I don't know if there's some guidelines that you can set up for people 
when they're doing, you know, the tutoring for kids; but maybe that would be 
something they could work off of in order to ensure that we're becoming really 
successful tutors with these kids.
As a grant maker seeking the most effective 
use of our funding, I certainly prefer seeing our resources utilized to advance 
programming for the benefit of people and the community over seeing the same 
resources used for writing proposals, filling out applications, and chasing 
dollars.
Our 
goal is to grow AmeriCorps until, like the CCC, every person who wants to serve 
has the opportunity to do so.  I'd like to see in 50 years from now AmeriCorps 
can look back on alumni and speak proudly of their accomplishments that we have 
in looking back our 50 years.  We have served every state three and a half 
million men.  It worked out beautifully.
MR. EISNER:  I don't know if you're willing to respond to 
this in this context or if you'd want to respond later.  But could you imagine a 
way of doing that, of somehow requiring commissions -- without mandating what 
the formula is of requiring commissions to simply develop their own formula 
around some of these issues that simply would have to meet certain criteria so 
that we could, on the one hand, actually be certain that these policies are 
moving forward and, on the other hand, allow them to have another 
level?
As I 
thought about the public and funding partnerships both nationally and locally 
that have made the good work of these and other organizations possible, I kept 
coming back to the analogy of a funding ecology; and that is, as Webster's would 
say, the relationship of the organisms and their environment.
Determining realistic and appropriate expectations of a 
diverse group of subgrantees is a challenge.  Finding alternative ways of 
transitioning to lovely sustained services besides an incremental reduction in 
federal funds is necessary.  As a pilot state in the most recent unified state 
planning process, we were challenged to integrate national service 
programming.
MR. EISNER:  
Let me just ask you a quick question.  I appreciate the focus that you bring on 
diversity.  Are you particularly concerned about anything that we're considering 
impacting diversity? Do you believe that the federal share issues or matching 
requirements can impact diversity?           MR. VARRO:  Yes.  We have eight 
camps in Ohio, and I'm familiar with two of them in Michigan too.  I have spent 
quite a bit of time up there.  The camps could continue.  For instance, in Ohio 
it costs around 7 million a year.  Net costs are only 5 million. They produced 
and sold $2 million of products.  So that's a method of reducing the 
funds.
Would you agree with the proposition that the 
ability to attract private or matching funding is fair proxy for increased 
community support for our program?
The other thing 
that we decided to do was to add sort of an ed award only twist because we had 
some requirements for some statewide events that we do and things like that for 
members that are budget requirements, and so we actually allow them to apply for 
$500 for FTE to participate in the statewide events that we do to buy uniforms 
and to do some member training so that we didn't begin to impact the quality of 
the member experience by forcing them to do that.
Thank 
you so much for your patience, for your ideas, for your commitment to the 
program.  You'll be hearing more from us as we move the process 
forward.
MS. AMBROSE:  Thank you, 
Gretchen.  Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak with you.  I'm Jean 
Ambrose.  I'm the executive director of the West Virginia Commission for 
National and Community Service. My chair of the Commission is here, David Bell 
(phonetic spelling), who came along with me.  You'll hear from a staff person 
with the Commission in a little bit.
MS. COLLEE:  AmeriCorps is important to us.
MR. CALDWELL:  I have staff in the audience that will 
tell you that's exactly what I need.
But what's important about what I just pointed out in that 
policy is that that policy was crafted by and for existing and previous 
AmeriCorps grantees, much like you're doing here.  They told us what the process 
should be.  They told us what the numbers should look like.
Just so the audience knows, there's two Toledo 
girls who are sitting up here.  So Maureen who is feeling shy, I thought, okay, 
maybe she knew we were from Toledo.  And thanks for hosting, Kitty.
At any rate, my name is Maureen Sullivan; and I'm the 
executive director of the Urban Appalachian Council in Cincinnati, Ohio.  UAC is 
a relatively small nonprofit organization.  It's community based; and, in fact, 
our strength, I believe, is in our connection to our community and to our 
partners.
Thank you so much for your 
participation today.  I'm going to turn this back over to David 
Eisner.

It's my sense that the development of new sites, the planning 
for new sites is dramatically different today than it has been in the past.  I 
think that actually one of the major differences is around the funding issue and 
sustainability to try and get multiple-year grants up front.

I think that 
may be it.
My name is Jeffrey Glebocki.  
I'm senior program officer for education at the George Gund Foundation in 
Cleveland.  I'm also honored to be a board member of the Grant Making Forum on 
Community and National Service, which is a national affinity group of 
foundations and corporations which have organized to encourage public and 
private investment in the field of service to strengthen communities and build 
democracy.
The loss of member services in our 
services for our families and our children is going to be devastating.  And as 
several other people said, you know, I understand the benefit of the equation in 
terms of like national and local; but it would just be a shame if those 
reductions in per-member cost and the eventual reduction in support would lead 
to the overall reduction in service, notwithstanding the tremendous words of my 
colleague up here.
- - -
In 
conclusion I would say that we have learned much about the negative outcomes in 
nature when ecological challenges alter the balances which exist in the 
environment.  So I would suggest we take that lesson from those experiences and 
make decisions which will nurture, not harm, the health and community of the 
national service in this country.
We could never have that kind of impact as 
being able to maintain this flagship presence for what AmeriCorps should look 
like.  In my mind -- I haven't consulted with the program involved and as Kyle 
said, this needs a larger conversation -- but being able to perhaps maintain at 
a members-only level, like the VISTA program basically.
MS. COLLEE:  And quite honestly, we were 
ready to expand our program but for 2003.  We were ready.  Our partners were 
ready to say, "We want more AmeriCorps members."
MR. VARRO:  Thank you.
For 
all of you who are out there as program directors, you know that personal and 
professional development is just as important in AmeriCorps as it is about what 
you get done.  Therefore, whether you train 10 AmeriCorps members versus 21 
AmeriCorps members, it doesn't really matter.  It's the same amount of time that 
you put into it.  So just kind of some things that we've learned.
MR. 
EISNER:  So I think that on something like matching funds, there are really two 
sets of questions.  One set of questions gets to the overall, to the model, to 
the shape.  And the other set of questions gets to sort of amounts.
MS. MAUK: 
 Well, one of my notes had been two speakers, 25 minutes.
Conversely, though, when there's a diminished balance 
in richness in the environment, there is a reduction in the health and vitality 
of organisms.  In the funding ecology analogy, when the public/private 
partnerships begin to alter, we can expect a similar degradation in the health 
and vitality of service organizations and programs.
They provide training, collaborate program planning, and provide "bennies" 
for the service of our members.  But as grass-roots organizations, they are 
simply not fiscally able to support our programs, at least to that extent.  
And when we have received such support, it has been episodic.  And in the 
current time of state budget cutting locally, nationally, and statewide, it's 
virtually nil.
MR. CALDWELL:  Right.
So AmeriCorps is just not any government grant program.  I guess that's the 
point that I'm really trying to make here.  It's not the same as spinning 
something off into the private sector.

And so I 
think that it was important -- we worked in schools in reading literacy programs 
-- for kids to see what you could do with your life and what a college education 
meant and just where you could go with yourself, and this program was a good 
example for that.
A few months ago, the Grant Making Forum on Community and 
National Service along with the Henry Jackson Foundation released the report, 
"Building a Partnership for National Service."  This document further 
articulates how government and philanthropy have shared interests and 
responsibilities ensuring the health of nonprofit organizations but that both 
public and private sectors have unique strengths and 
limits.
I think that the Corporation must consider the limits of 
grantees in small rural states when setting sustainability and match 
requirements and deciding on an appropriate level of federal funding. As I say, 
we've developed a sustainability plan that we feel best fits the needs of our 
state and our program and think that that should be considered by the 
Corporation for our state.
So I think 
that's just one small way that our service impact extends beyond their term of 
service. I'm going to stop there.
MS. VAN DER 
VEER:  Okay.  And now we get to hear from the second person from Volunteer 
Muskegon, and that's Kris Collee.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thank you, 
Maureen.  Any follow-up for Maureen?
Ironically, we were discussing that 
all of our credit card debt was incurred during our service years.  In spite of 
that, it has played a huge part in my life as a life-shaping experience.  It 
influenced and validated me and my interest to teacher in inner-city, at-risk 
situations.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Thank you, Paula.
It's very straightforward and very 
simple. It's a progress report.  There needs to be some way of figuring out, 
through progress reports or otherwise, that the organizations were on track and 
doing all that they need to in the performance measures.
But if we're 
talking about a program that's like the VISTA program with members only, then we 
should have the same amount of paperwork that VISTA has.
For just as many years, my office has sponsored a number of AmeriCorps national service programs 
addressing critical community needs in education, the environment, public 
health, the arts, and access to technology and have been funded through 
(inaudible) of America, VISTA, and the Ohio Community Service Council.
But I do know that when we had to grandfather this, we wish we 
had the foresight to do this at the very beginning; but at the very beginning we 
didn't even know if AmeriCorps was going to be around from year to year.  So we 
had to really implement this and grandfather some of our programs who had been 
in existence.
MR. EISNER:  And you were worried that the 
slippery slope might lead to sort of a dramatic shift from, say, public to 
private.
We were created in 1998 in Cincinnati through the initial leadership of Father James Hoffit (phonetic 
spelling) through the university and with initial funding from Proctor & Gamble 
and John Pepper (phonetic spelling) there.  We are the seventh branch of Public 
Allies.  There are actually ten current branches of Public Allies across the 
country.  We work with young people and are diverse.
Secondly, we believe that AmeriCorps member service and 
activities and outcomes are best defined by the community.  Our organization 
alone in Cincinnati we have 99 alum, and we work with over 60 different 
organizations in our community.  We do a lot of work with those organizations to 
help them define what is best for their community, the populations they're 
reaching and serving.
What we have seen over this what I call a dark summer coming 
out of this budget crisis is that AmeriCorps has reestablished itself as a 
valuable program.  In Michigan we know that AmeriCorps works. We know that for 
every AmeriCorps member we have in our state, at least 26 additional nonstipend 
volunteers are leveraged, making for on an annual basis 19,000 people that we 
have brought into the work of national service programs, specifically with 
regard to AmeriCorps.
Over the past decade, the cost 
of AmeriCorps has been often compared to the cost of volunteer programs; and I 
think that has been a terrible mistake, misnomer.  AmeriCorps should not be 
compared to volunteer programs.  It should be compared to the cost of Peace 
Corps or the fielding of people in military service.
Thank you again for this opportunity 
to share with you some of my thoughts and for coming to Ohio.
MS. 
AMBROSE:  No.  I would definitely think that, as has been demonstrated by our 
flagship program and others, it is possible to raise money for operational 
costs.  It's very difficult raising the unknowing dollars for member living 
allowances and those kinds of things.
But I would encourage the Corporation to really look at how 
Senior Corps programs are funded, how there are ongoing dollars to help manage 
those programs and meet the goals.  And I know at least in the state of 
Michigan, many of the Senior Corps programs have arrived at some common goals 
and benchmarks.  I think that's quite doable for AmeriCorps, at least on state 
levels.
So it's really -- the exit 
strategy is not something we apply equally across the board, and we look at the 
-- we look deeply at the value of contributions.
So when we go in with new programs that, by the way, were 
identified as local need as a part of the original grant application, they were 
identified as a local need in those communities that we went to.  So we start 
with these programs.  We're able to build that capacity because, hey, our 
faculty and staff have the experience of building that capacity because I don't 
fund things long term either from our office and pilots that we start.
And I'm glad Glenn said what he 
did in terms of sustainability.  When we define sustainability, we move beyond 
how much money does it take for this program to continue after three years?  
Because I think you're exactly right.  If you're going to look at it from a 
dollars' standpoint, we wouldn't have been successful in three years to leverage 
those dollars; but we were successful in leveraging the people to continue the 
program.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  We're going 
to move on to Glenn.  Glenn Odenbrett is from Case Western Reserve University.  
Thank you for your comments, Jeff.
MS. MAUK:  I'm intrigued by your last thought about how communities could help 
define sustainability for themselves.  It kind of reflects on Kyle and David's 
conversation about states defining sustainability, and now we're talking about 
communities.  So how would that happen?
And then maybe that's the first step, that all 
of the different ideas that are percolating, you know, in Ohio -- and I know 
you're going to hear from West Virginia very soon -- we need to pull all those 
together and see where we can learn from each other on those things.
We are creating the future right now when candidates in 
10, maybe 10, 20, 30 years are going to be talking about their AmeriCorps 
service just the way we expect them to talk about their military service now; 
and if they don't have it, it shows a character flaw of some kind or they really 
have to explain it. So I think that's what AmeriCorps is about really, and a 
good thing it is too.
MR. EISNER:  Without asking you questions, let 
me just thank you for particularly the focus on a broader definition of sustainability.  I hope that you go 
into more detail on that in your written testimony. I'm also really intrigued by 
the idea of providing incentives, for the Corporation providing incentives for 
communities to address the issue.  I'll be looking forward to that.
When we looked at sustainability, 
our approach at the very, very beginning of our grant cycle in year one was that 
ours was going to be a three-year program and at the end of three years we would 
not seek to reapply for federal funding.
So the idea is to allow 
us to build capacity to grow and that it really will be some day the most 
commonly asked question, "Where are you doing your service year?"  That's really 
our goal.  I just wanted to emphasize that because I know that's what our board 
members would say.
One caution from the field of volunteer managers is that an AmeriCorps member who is available for 
only one year or even two should serve in a support or partner role to a 
permanent staff member for consistency for the community volunteers.  They can 
certainly be helpful in building agency capacity to involve volunteers, but they 
are not necessarily the best solution.  The nonprofit organization must make the 
long-term commitment of funds and attention to volunteer management.
MR. EISNER:  Thank you very much for making that decision.
Training is also needed to help 
AmeriCorps members to understand the value of a well-managed volunteer program.  
Human resource management is valuable life knowledge no matter the setting, but 
it is vital in a nonprofit that depends on volunteers to leverage staff in the 
carrying out of social outreach. Placement of AmeriCorps members in volunteer 
centers to maintain a database of local volunteers would help recruit and place 
those volunteers, and that helps build the capacity for the volunteer centers to 
serve their local communities.
AmeriCorps offers our 
citizens the opportunity to serve our country for one and two years and is most 
valuable because it is at the local level, not unlike the military that protects 
us at the national level.  The stories are also very individual of the impact on 
lives.
It's like 
telling a company that you're contracting with for airplanes that you need these 
specifications laid out.  They get all their line in place; and then, whoops, 
you know, now you're going to cut their contract by half in the next year.  Who 
knows.  Excuse me.
And a quick question on matching.  Does a 
requirement that you meet a matching amount in order to qualify for federal 
support help you in terms of raising money for the match?
MR. WEISS:  Thank you very much.  I promise I'll be brief.  My 
other community involvement is coaching some UAT soccer players, and it's going 
to be hard for me to get to where I need to be at 4:30 to do that.
So some suggestions.  Definitely when 
you define sustainability locally, we really encourage you to look at we 
understand that one size does not fit all but perhaps looking at the size of the 
agency's budgets and the number of staff people that they have might be a helpful guideline.  And also another thing is to perhaps 
have national benchmarks that the Corporation for National Community Service has 
that would then be trickled down.
I 
guess I would like to share with you some of my thoughts as I look back over ten 
years and think about what we thought AmeriCorps was going to be then and where 
I think we are now because I really have some concerns that I want to share with 
you.
MR. GLEBOCKI:  And this might not be answering your 
question, David, but taking that and your inquiries of Kyle a few moments ago, 
what struck me about the issue perhaps is does this get down to a fundamental 
change in the role the federal government sees itself in providing 
funding?
These are 6-foot bronze on a 4-foot pedestal in 17 
states.  We have five more scheduled this year. We have them in New Jersey and 
Florida and Pennsylvania and Michigan, Saint Louis, and on and on, Salem, Oregon.  
We have one coming up next month in Dallas, Texas.  So it will be 25 
soon.
And it may be semantics; but I think if you look 
at it a different way, I think it allows you to more broadly approach it.  There 
are a couple things. We were asked to comment on what would have helped in that 
transition, and some of the things came up.  Some of them are in the blue 
document that was passed around, and I will readily admit that some of them are 
relatively controversial.
I'm going to try not to editorialize.  I'm going to 
try to go by this list here that was prepared by our ED and his staff.  The 
Corporation should consider streamlining and making the grant process more 
consistent with confirmed deadlines, dates, constructions, and so forth.
And I think to the extent possible, whatever process this rulemaking 
dialogue comes out with, that it should look locally to empower locals to make 
those sort of national decisions and allow that local context to 
drive the policies, not making a rule that is universal to fit all the 
grantees.
MR. EISNER:  If there are requirements, say, 
by a state commission that require increasing matching or that require sort of 
increasing thresholds of competition as the life cycle of the grant grows longer, has City Year thought through how it would 
respond?
MR. EISNER:  That federal share.
MS. DRUMMOND:  Hi.  My name is Maureen 
Drummond.  I'm currently program director at the Volunteer Services Agency in 
Youngstown, Ohio.  We have three programs focused on volunteer service and RSVP, 
a volunteer center, and a Face Action Program.  I also am currently the 
president of the Ohio Volunteer Centers Association, and collectively we have 
some thoughts that kind of echo what Maile Doyle and Kitty Burcsu have 
reflected; and keep in mind that they are basic thoughts.
MR. EISNER:  -- how to make some 
of it more specific.  You mentioned at one point that you think that one of the 
reasons AmeriCorps is effective is that it helps organizations attract 
additional funding.
I think it is hard when it feels like there's a box you have to 
fit in; and when we extend our service beyond that box, it's hard to manage both.  But 
somehow I want the complexity to exist, but I know it's not easy.
MR. SCHMIESING:  Thank you.  It's indeed a pleasure for me to be here this morning 
or this afternoon now.  Kitty tracked me down in Texas last week.  I was on 
vacation doing some work; and she wanted program us to come in and talk about 
our program a little bit, more specifically about the sustainability efforts of 
the Ohio Teen Bridges Program that had operated from about 1996 to 
1998.
If you don't have anything you 
want to say but feel more expressive in writing, right there, rulemaking@cns.gov 
is how you can get your comments to us.  If you like your fax machine better 
than your e-mail, you can fax to Nickie Goren, the associate general counsel.  
The number is on the paper.  Or we take snail mail.  It may be eradicated.  We 
might not get it for three months, but you can send us mail.  Our address there 
in Washington is listed as well.
MR. EISNER:  Yeah.  I think there's 
got to be some way of having a broadening of the discussions. It's a little hard 
with a bulletin board format because I'm confident that as soon as I start 
floating what about this or what about that, all of a sudden folks will be 
thinking, oh, now we know what the new rule is going to be.
MR. EISNER:  City Year, of course, is a really important model 
and also is an interesting litmus test.  As we think through various forms and 
regulations, I find myself, although I try not to, thinking, well, what would 
this mean for City Year? Because you're in so many places.
Finally, I would say we need to acknowledge the 
risks that we might place community organizations in should we alter the current 
funding scenario. Simply put, the more time and resources these organizations 
spend on fund raising, the less time and resources available spent on meeting 
their mission of service.
MS. VAN DER VEER:  Okay.  Thank you, 
Mary. Maureen, you're the next speaker, please.