
Within the past 11 days, a 14-year-old Titusville high school student died and a 23-year-old Florida State University student died in Tallahassee. State health officials say none of the cases is related and there's no cause for alarm. But the winter and early spring months -- when we're most likely to have colds and other respiratory ailments -- are the most active for meningococcal infections.
She had lived in Mexico until August. She had traveled to Mexico Jan. 16 and returned Jan. 21 -- three days before feeling ill.
HIGH DEATH RATE
The Miami Herald
''Her friends said she was hurting a lot and went home early from work,'' said Paquette. The bacteria had attacked her bloodstream.
To read other stories in The Miami Herald, go to http://www.herald.com/
''It starts going up in December. January and February are our high,'' said Dr. Steven Wiersma, state epidemiologist for the Florida Department of Health.
Six months after his ordeal, he still isn't certain how he contracted the disease. But his message to teens and parents today: ``Be very careful. Don't share drinks. Don't share anything.''
Salinas, the Key Biscayne mom, had both forms of bacterial meningitis: blood infection and brain swelling, according to an autopsy performed by the Miami-Dade County Medical Examiner's Office.
February 20, 2003: Bacteria that causes meningitis is quick, deadly
DISORIENTATION
The official cause of Salinas' death Jan. 29: meningococcal disease -- a rare but highly contagious illness most commonly known as meningitis. If it attacks the brain or spinal cord -- two areas it targets -- your organs can shut down one by one, leading to a rapid death in an otherwise healthy person.
He was working at the Magic Kingdom and suddenly felt disoriented and feverish. He went to an Orlando area hospital and was told he had the flu. But 24 hours later he was rushed to the emergency room of another hospital. There they performed a spinal tap and found cloudy fluid -- the telltale signs the bacteria had colonized in his spinal and brain fluid.
Her family held a quiet memorial, and she was cremated. Her husband and their three sons went to Mexico after the service and have not yet returned.

At the University of Miami, the vaccines are available on campus for $70 each. Insurance typically does not cover the cost. Florida Atlantic University in Boca Raton, which houses about 2,000 students in Jupiter and Boca, also provides the shots on campus.
Last month, Florida colleges and universities began requiring all students living in on-campus dormitories to get the bacterial meningitis vaccine -- called Menomune -- or sign waivers indicating they were already inoculated (and provide proof) or they declined to take the shots for medical reasons.
Since meningococcal is highly contagious for those who have had close contact with an infected person, the public health department vaccinates family members, co-workers, neighbors or school mates. Those who may show symptoms -- such as high fever -- are immediately put on strong antibiotics for one to two days.
''I was very lucky,'' he said this week while in Miami visiting his grandparents.
At FSU, however, officials require both on- and off-campus students to be vaccinated or sign waivers. The reason: Campus dorms aren't the only places where the 36,600 students have close interaction. Only 4,200 students live on campus.
She had dined out with friends on Jan. 24, gone home and started vomiting a few hours later. By morning, she had a 104-degree fever. She was admitted to Mercy Hospital on Jan. 25 and died four days later.
The FSU social work student who died Feb. 11 in Tallahassee was living in off-campus housing, Paquette said.
''His kidneys had stopped working. He had blood clots on the front and left side of his brain. Everything was going downhill,'' recalled Orlando's father, Orlando Diaz Sr. Doctors told him, ``I'm sorry, Mr. Diaz. Your son will be dead in eight to 10 hours.''
Those who survive can be left with hearing loss, neurological disorders, permanent scars or amputated limbs caused when gangrene sets in feet, hands or toes where blood circulation was impeded. (A form of the disease attacks blood vessels and blocks blood flow.)
The disease is caused by a bacteria called Neisseria meningitidis. It can lie dormant in the back of the throats of thousands of people -- about 5 percent to 10 percent of the population -- who show no symptoms and are unharmed by the organism. Their immune systems are strong enough to keep the bacteria in check.
Once the bacteria set in, they can cause two types of illnesses: meningitis (an infection of the brain and spinal cord fluid) or meningococcemia (an infection of the bloodstream). Both are characterized by high fever, body and neck aches, mental disorientation, a skin rash and vomiting. Since symptoms can mimic the flu, parents are urged to take quick action to have their children checked by a doctor.
Currently the vaccine is generally given only to those exposed to someone with the disease. One pediatrician advocates vaccinating all children and young adults.
Republished here with the permission of the Miami Herald. No further republication or redistribution is permitted without the written approval of The Miami Herald.
(Another form of meningitis, one caused by a virus, rarely causes death.)
Salinas' death was the first of three in Florida in the past three weeks.
The Diazes credit prayer with the turnaround. Doctors amputated two of the teen's toes. Today, he has purplish splotches on his skin and weakness on his left side.
Each year 130 to 200 cases of meningococcal disease are reported around the state -- about 3,000 nationwide. Its high death rate means 5 percent to 15 percent of those who contract the disease die.
''It is one of the scariest illnesses that any healthcare worker can encounter,'' said Dr. Onelia G. Lage, director of adolescent community health at the University of Miami/Jackson Memorial Medical Center.
Bacteria that kills hundreds of people a year had invaded her body -- swelling her brain and causing respiratory failure and purple splotches on her face, neck and earlobes.
Investigators aren't sure how Salinas contracted the disease. The autopsy indicated she smoked and drank alcohol on social occasions.
Wiersma and others say they don't know what causes the bacteria to attack one person and skip another. But some research indicates those who smoke or are exposed to passive smoke or those who consume alcohol are more susceptible, especially if they have weakened immune systems.

BY CONNIE PRATER
cprater@herald.com
Five days before Norah Emilia Salinas experienced the first chills, then fever and vomiting, she was a healthy 39-year-old mother of three sons living on Key Biscayne.
''Why wait for college?'' asked Lage of UM. ``I bet you high school kids could benefit.''
Copyright 2003 The Miami Herald
The schools were responding to a state law that took effect Jan. 1 -- when Florida became one of 14 states nationwide mandating vaccines prior to admission. The states are responding to a rising trend over the past several years: College freshmen are at a slightly greater risk for the disease than those in the same age group who don't attend college.
''They called the priest,'' Diaz Sr. said.

The 18-year-old from Orlando recalls little about his nasty bout with meningitis, which left him in a coma for six days in August.
''There are sorority houses, a lot of off-campus dormitory-type living and people who are run down'' with weak immune systems, said Dr. Celeste Paquette, medical director at FSU's Thagard Student Health Center in Tallahassee.
Orlando Diaz Jr. is one of the survivors.
But if those carriers cough or sneeze on others, the organisms can be transmitted and infect those with weaker immune systems. Drinking from the same cup or beer can, sharing cigarettes or kissing are other ways you can get it.
Those most often affected: children younger than 5 and those in the 15-24 age group, where the disease is on the rise. Small children -- younger than 2 -- typically have not had enough time to build up any resistance to fight off infection. And the young adults are more likely to live in college dormitories or military barracks and share beer, water bottles and cigarettes.
''The answer about when and how it happened, nobody knows,'' said Dr. Fermin Leguen, assistant director of the Office of Epidemiology and Disease Control at the Miami-Dade County Health Department. ``It could have been at home. It could have been sitting in the mall.''