
The Office of Trade Development (TD) at the U.S. Department of Commerce 
        offers U.S. businesses resources and services for all stages of the exporting 
        process. With industry-focused experts to provide strategic research and 
        analysis, TD helps small and large U.S. businesses access the global marketplace. 
        TD also administers 1-800-USA-TRADE, a nationwide hotline available to 
        companies seeking government export assistance and counseling.

"I am honored to accept this recognition on behalf of our 309 employees," 
        Vizzi said. "From our associates in manufacturing to our international 
        sales and marketing teams, I am pleased that the quality and design so 
        successful in America has been warmly received around the world. We expect 
        our international sales to continue increasing as we expand our distribution 
        and seek out new opportunities and markets for wallpaper."
BUSH ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL AND CONGRESSMAN TODD PLATTS 
        
        SPOTLIGHT TRADE IN PENNSYLVANIA 
York Wallcoverings, America's Oldest and Largest Wallcoverings 
        Manufacturer, 
        Receives Commerce Department Export Achievement Award
York Wallcoverings has been providing wallpaper from the same factory 
        location in the historic Susquehanna Valley of Pennsylvania since 1895. 
        Today, York Wallcoverings is the oldest and largest wallcoverings manufacturer 
        in the United States, creating residential and commercial wallcoverings 
        that can be found in more than 40 countries. In 2002, York produced 35 
        collections books and more than ten million rolls of wallcoverings.
"Congratulations to York Wallcoverings on its exporting successes," 
        Conlin said. "Businesses like this one create many American jobs. 
        That is why the Bush Administration is committed to helping U.S. firms 
        access new markets. When U.S. firms increase their exports, they contribute 
        to a stronger American economy and an increase in overall global economic 
        prosperity."

        "I am pleased to join the Department of Commerce in recognizing York 
        Wallcoverings for the tremendous success of its products throughout the 
        world," stated Platts. "York Wallcoverings is a wonderful corporate 
        citizen in our community and I wish them continued success."
Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Trade Development Linda Conlin and 
        Congressman Todd Platts (PA-19) today presented Carl Vizzi, President 
        and Owner of York Wallcoverings, with the U.S. Department of Commerce 
        Export Achievement Award. The award recognizes the company's export excellence 
        and use of the Commerce Department's services to increase export sales 
        and open new international markets.
York Wallcoverings was presented with an Export Achievement Award in 
        recognition of more than doubling its global sales in the past four years. 
        The company has worked with the Commerce Department to expand its international 
        network of distributors in the Middle East and South America. In addition, 
        York Wallcoverings is considering expanding their business to trade with 
        partners in Denmark, Hungary and Russia and will continue to work with 
        the Commerce Department to meet its objectives in these markets.