

Contact: Website: JoeOtterbein.com,
Email: joeotter@nfdc.net
I published the original letter without sending it to Mr. Platts first
because I wanted to get something up on my hobby web site (I have never
seen a penny for it in over three years) for Christmas Eve. I just got
it up when my wife returned with some shopping and stopped me cold. I did
not get a chance to tidy the piece up or send it along to Mr. Platts until
several days later. In fact, I am letting you guys know now that I'm sending
the letter on to the local papers. You may want to be ready for that; a
lot more Yorkers will read it then.
The election was stolen. We agree on this.
I was not happy with Al's legal team's handling of the situation post
11/07. But yet I found that unlike those like Robert Kunst of FL, I do
not blame Al for not committing what would surely be political suicide
had he kept the fires burning after the fix was in on 12/13. The corporate
media would have burned him at the stake and the public would have eaten
up the "Faux News" (Fox) Channel Babble and the now "Faux-Wannabe" Conservative
News Network (CNN).
Unless you are implying that the Congressman feels that we cannot trust
those who count the ballots. In which case takes me back to my original
question. Should we trust public employees like Mr. Platts to determine
other public matters, such as what our taxes should be, or should we let
machines like computers make those determinations also?
Back to The OtterPage
What it boils down to is that: I was prevented from voting in the 2000
presidential election in Broward County FL.
Herbert Riede responds:
Add to this the fact that ANY NORC scenario that included ALL votes
in the recount efforts, Al Gore won Florida.
I do support Al, however, and have become a regular contributor to Leadership
'02, his PAC. I look forward to assisting his '04 campaign and hope to
make damned sure he gets PA's primary, if he decides to run.
One way to demonstrate this is to try the following exercise: First,
take a piece of plain white paper, write the name of two candidates, let's
say for example Platts and Otterbein. Take your pen and turn it over on
the side that does not write. Take the bottom of the pen and push it down
on the paper. Now hand it to a child and ask them if they can tell who
you voted for. You will see it is not difficult.
02/19/02 - I have read some of your thoughts and statements regarding
the 2000 election, and I think I could provide some useful anecdotes. I
lived most of my life in PA. I even started my family here. Between minimum
wage jobs and a low salary IT position, we got by. I got a lucky break
in July 2000 and was hired by WinDough.com of Boca Raton, Palm Beach County,
FL. I moved my family to Pompano Beach, Broward County, FL, 5 miles from
work. Needless to say, I was THERE.
Paid for by: Joe Otterbein for Congress
The contention that hand counts are "highly unfair," flies in the face
of the reality that many Presidents, including the man Mr. Bush quoted
in his victory speech - Thomas Jefferson - were elected by hand counts.
Americans have had free and fair elections long before machines were invented
to count them, and long before any of the present Supreme Court members,
were born to decide them.

I have talked to the President Elect (Al Gore) and DNC Chair Terry McCauliffe
about this issue this past December at a dinner in their honor in Washington.
While many are crying for a "fresh face" on the Democratic Ticket, I respond
that why do you want to replace someone who has WON?
It is not fair to maintain that only machines can be objective about
counting ballots. Following that logic, you have rule by machine not by
the people. That, I can assure you, is not what any voter in America intended
to support in this past election.
Not only did Al Gore win the popular vote, but he won Florida as well.
Living in the center of the action. The local news was all-election, all
the time. It was the topic every day at work, especially working in the
same building as Congressman Robert Wexler (D-FL). It was fun heckling
the rethuglican protesters.
Anyway, getting back to Mr. Platts' reasoning for only letting machines
count ballots, I have to respectfully say I feel that type of answer is
absurd. It is also what I expected - marching in lock-step with the GOP
leadership.
It also defies logic to say that only machines can determine who received
the votes "in a completely objective and fair fashion." Government officials
make such determinations every day. Judges look at data from various machines
and combine it with their own sensory perception to determine if someone
is to go free or be imprisoned. Certainly humans can look at a ballot and,
seeing that the chad was not pushed out enough for the machine to count,
determine the intent of the voter.
Over 1.2 million ballots were run through counting machines on 11/07/00,
but were NEVER run through the machines again, as dictated by the Florida
Election Code's 0.5% automatic recount law. Instead, the counties simply
confirmed the tallies that each run produced to make sure they added up.
I sent my registration in to vote in FL October 5th. The law requires
your registration to be postmarked no later than 29 days before the election,
November 7th, 2000. Nevertheless, I received a letter stating that "my
registration was late" and that "I would not be eligible to vote" until
November 9th. I received this note in late October. I complained to the
elections office before the election to refrains of "oh well", and I complained
election day and CONSTANTLY after. My story is on file with the DNC VRI.