
Judicially-created loopholes canceling protection for federal employees who raise concerns of any wrongdoing by a governmental agency with a co-worker, rather than taking the matter directly to those in a position to take corrective action. (see Horton v. Dept. of the Navy, 66 F.3d 279, 1995)
"Being a whistleblower takes courage," said Rep. Platts. "This bill is necessary to strengthen the rights of federal workers who make the hard choice to eliminate waste, fraud and abuse within the federal government. It is important for potential whistleblowers to feel that, if they come forward, they are truly protected by federal law."
Sean Moulton, Senior Policy Analyst, OMB Watch
For Immediate Release:
Thursday October 16, 2003
Under the Whistleblower Protection Act, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit is the final court of appellate review for whistleblower in federal workplace cases.
Since 1989, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit has
Washington, D.C. --- The Government Accountability Project praised legislation recently introduced in Congress to revive and strengthen the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act (WPEA) for federal employees who risk loss of their jobs when they disclose illegalities in the federal workplace, gross mismanagement and waste, or substantial and specific dangers to public health and safety. Nearly two million federal  employees lack protection against the bureaucratic harassment, damage to professional reputation and career loss that federal whistleblowers commonly suffer. Today's press conference was led by Senators Daniel Akaka (D-HI) and Charles Grassley (R-Iowa) and Rep. Todd Platts (R-Pennsylvania), two of the leading champions of the reform.
The legislation closes a series of judicially-created loopholes in the circumstances and proof to be eligible for protection. It also restores normal appellate judicial review, and permanently approves an "anti-gag statute, " which has unanimously passed in appropriations law for the last 13 years.
Contact:Jack Pannell
202.408.0034 x.143
Statements from National Organizations supporting "The Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act" and federal workers:
H.R. 3281, sponsored by Rep. Todd Platts (R-Pennsylvania), seeks to restore credibility for the WPA, which was passed unanimously by Congress in 1989 and strengthened again by unanimous vote, in 1994. Cosponsors of the bill include: 
Reps. John McHugh (R - New York), C.A. "Dutch" Ruppersberger (D-Maryland), Jan Schakowsky (D- Illinois), Christopher Shays (R-Connecticut), John Tierney (D-Massachusetts), Henry Waxman (D-California) and Frank Wolf (R-Virginia).
Chellie Pingree, president of Common Cause
The House and Senate bills are squarely aimed at protecting federal whistleblowers whose free speech rights in the workplace have been chilled by decisions from the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which has ruled only once in favor of a whistleblower on the merits over the past nine years, compiling a 1-84 track record against employees. In 1994, Congress amended the WPA for the express purpose of restoring Congressional intent that any whistleblower disclosure by a federal employee is protected. Yet, in case after case, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit has rendered opinions that effectively erode the free speech rights of workers in the federal workplace. This is particularly troubling for whistleblowers on the front lines of homeland security, who should have the freedom to warn of vulnerabilities in the national security safety net.
"Whistleblowers have been and continue to be extremely useful in revealing illegal or inappropriate government actions. Whistleblowers are modern day heroes of accountability, safeguarding government against corruption and mismanagement, alerting citizens of unseen threats lurking where we least expect it.  The only reasonable and responsible government action is to stand along side whistleblowers and protect them as earnestly as they try
to protect the government and the people."
Judicially eroded free speech protections for the federal worker who has a reasonable belief of gross mismanagement by government officials. In a highly controversial case, the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals has imposed an evidentiary burden virtually impossible to overcome. In  LaChance v. White, 174F.3d 1378, 1999, the Court devised a legal test called "irrefragable proof to the contrary." In White the Court ruled a whistleblower had not met that standard, even though his employer, the United States Air Force, ultimately agreed with his challenge to a pork barrel program and canceled it. The court said no one can pass the test without first overcoming a presumption the government acts correctly, fairly, lawfully and in good faith, by "irrefragable proof." Webster's dictionary defines that term as "incontrovertible, incontestable, undeniable or incapable of being overthrown." In other words, no one has a reasonable belief for evidence of misconduct, unless the individual wrongdoer confesses. This is a tougher standard to qualify for protection than to put a criminal in jail.
Retaliation is tragically still a fact of life for whistleblowers. This
legislation is fundamental to create an environment where those insiders
are able to come forward to make the public safer and more secure."
"An effective and accountable federal government depends on the honesty of workers to report wrongdoing. This important piece of legislation will help provide protections to employees who speak out courageously against the likes of fraud and abuse."
summary: Representative Todd Platts (R-PA) and Senators Daniel Akaka (D-HI)and Charles Grassley (R-IA) lead press conference on whistleblower protection.
Judicially created loopholes canceling protection for federal workers who disclose wrongdoing as part of their job duties. Thus, federal auditors and investigators are cautious in their criticism of anyone who could retaliate against them. (see Willis v. Dept. of Agriculture, 141 F.3d 1139, 1998 and Huffman v. Office of Personnel Management, 263 F. 3d 1341, 2001)
"The WPA has been hopelessly gutted," said Tom Devine, the legal director of the Government Accountability Project. "Using the present system for a claim against a government agency is like driving on a road with more potholes than pavement. Hostile judicial activism has made the law a Trojan horse that creates more reprisal victims than it protects."
Judicially created loopholes canceling protection for federal workers who disclose wrongdoing previously exposed by another whistleblower. (See Meuwissen v. Dept. of Interior, 234 F. 3d 9, 2000)
Companion Senate legislation (S. 1358), introduced in June, is sponsored by Senators Daniel K. Akaka (D-Hawaii), Richard J. Durbin (D-Illinois), Charles Grassley (R-Iowa), Patrick Leahy (D-Vermont) and Carl Levin (D-Michigan).
Danielle Brian, Executive Director of The Project On Government Oversight.