
Representative Jeff Miller (Republican-Florida) was first elected to Congress in 1998. He represents Florida's 1st Congressional District. Congressman Miller is a member of the House Armed Services Committee. He also serves as a member of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
Representative Silvestre Reyes (Democrat-Texas) was first elected in 1996 and is currently serving his 3rd term. He represents the 16th district of Texas. Rep. Reyes is a member of the House Armed Services, Veterans' Affairs and Select Intelligence Committees.
Representative Bill Shuster (Republican-Pennsylvania) was elected to the 107th Congress in a Special Election on May 15, 2001. Congressman Bill Shuster represents Pennsylvania's Ninth Congressional District. He serves on the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and on the Subcommittees on Highways and Transit; Water Resources and Environment; and Aviation.
Representative Adam Schiff (Democrat-California) was elected to the House of Representatives in 2000 and is serving his first term. He represents 27th district of California. Congressman Schiff serves on the International Relations and Judiciary Committees. He received his B.A. from Stanford University in 1982 and J.D. from Harvard University in 1985.
In addition to Rep. Rohrabacher, other members of the delegation are Representatives Martin Meehan (D-Massachusetts), Jim Gibbons (R-Nevada), Silvestre Reyes (D-Texas), Todd Platts (R-Pennsylvania), Adam Schiff (D-California), Ed Schrock (R-Virginia), Bill Shuster (R-Pennsylvania) and Jeff Miller (R-Florida).
Representative Jim Gibbons (Republican-Nevada) was first elected to the House of Representatives in 1996 and is currently serving his 3rd term. He represents 2nd district of Nevada. Rep. Gibbons serves on the Armed Services, Resources, Veterans' Affairs Committees and Select Intelligence Committees.

This is Representative Ed Schrock's (Republican-Virginia) first term in the House of Representatives since his election in 2000. He represents the 2nd district of Virginia. Rep. Schrock is a member of the Armed Services, Budget, Government Reform and Small Business Committees. In 1975 he received his M.A. from the American University.
Back...
BIOGRAPHIES

Representative Dana Rohrabacher (Republican-California) was first elected to the House of Representatives in 1988. Currently Rep. Rohrabacher is serving his 7th term. He represents in Congress the 45th district of California. Congressman Rohrabacher serves on the International Relations Committee and is the Chairman of the House Science Committee's Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee. Prior to his election to Congress, Representative Rohrabacher served as Special Assistant to President Reagan. For seven years he was one of the President's senior speechwriters.
Representative Todd Platts (Republican-Pennsylvania) was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 2000 and is serving his first term. He represents the 19th district of Pennsylvania. Congressman Platts is the member of the House Education and Workforce, Government Reform and Transportation and Infrastructure Committees.
Representative Martin Meehan (Democrat-Massachusetts) was first elected to the House of Representatives in 1992 and is currently serving his 5th term. He represents the 5th district in Massachusetts. Rep. Meehan is a member of the House Armed Services and Judiciary Committees.
Representative Rohrabacher was first elected to the House of Representatives in 1988. He serves on the International Relations Committee and is the Chairman of the House Science Committee's Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee.
A group of nine U.S. Congressmen led by Representative Dana Rohrabacher (Republican-California) was making an April 2-5 visit to Uzbekistan. On April 4 the Congressmen  met with Uzbekistan's President Islam Karimov, Minister of Defense Qodir Ghulomov and Minister of Foreign Affairs Abdulaziz Komilov to discuss a range of security/defense issues of mutual interest to the two countries.
A number of the members of the delegation also serve on the Armed Services, Judiciary, International Relations, and Government Reform committees in the U.S. House of Representatives.