
NMHA will award these Legislators of the Year on June 5 during the 2003 NMHA Annual Conference’s Advocacy Day Breakfast at the Hyatt Regency on Capitol Hill.
“Mental health advocates greatly appreciate the commitment of Representatives Christian-Christensen, Foley, Rodriguez and Platts for their continued work to improve the lives of millions of Americans with mental health problems,” said Michael M. Faenza, NMHA President and CEO.
The National Mental Health Association is the country's oldest and largest nonprofit organization addressing all aspects of mental health and mental illness.  With more than 340 affiliates nationwide, NMHA works to improve the mental health of all Americans through advocacy, education, research and service.
ALEXANDRIA, Va.  (May 29, 2003) -- The National Mental Health Association (NMHA) will honor Representatives Donna Christian-Christensen (D- U.S. Virgin Islands), Mark Foley (R-Fla.), Todd Platts (R-Penn.) and Ciro Rodriguez (D-Tex.) with Legislator of the Year awards for their assiduous efforts to improve the lives of people with mental illness.

As the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Rep. Rodriguez developed and introduced legislation last year that addressed the mental health challenges facing Latino Americans.  In addition, Rep. Rodriquez cosponsored mental health parity legislation and is committed to prevention and early intervention services for children with mental health needs.
As one of only seven members of the Republican Party to stand up and oppose the devastating FY 2004 budget that jeopardized people with mental illness, Rep. Todd Platts understands the importance of federal support for public health and social services.  Rep. Platts strongly supported mental health parity and prevention and early intervention services for children with disabilities legislation.
Rep. Mark Foley has demonstrated leadership in promoting the mental health of both adults and children.  Rep. Foley supported legislation addressing children’s mental health needs in schools, educational-funding for early intervention and mental health services, and mental health parity.
Rep. Donna Christian-Christensen has shown sincere commitment to people with mental health problems through her leadership in the Congressional Black Caucus, advocacy for prevention and early intervention services for children with disabilities, and strong support of mental health parity.