
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Robert Reilly, Deputy Chief of Staff for Congressman 
          Todd Platts (717)757-5569 
          Cell (717) 880-0650
Susan Still, PA Dept. of Education 
          (717)772-3529
The Summer Food Service Program (SFSP), a federally 
          funded child nutrition program, serves nutritious meals to low-income 
          children during the summer months at parks, schools and other community 
          sites. These meals fill the gap left when regular school meal programs 
          shut down during the summer vacation. Local sponsors implement the meals, 
          and the Pennsylvania Department of Education administers the program.
“Only one in three needy 
          children in Pennsylvania has access to the nutritional help that they 
          need during the summer months,” said Platts in a March 29th 
          news release.  “Those numbers drop to less than one in seven when the 
          metropolitan Philadelphia and Pittsburgh areas are removed from consideration.”
Susan Still, Supervisor of the Summer Food Service 
          Program for the Pennsylvania Department of Education, agrees, “It’s 
          a great opportunity to pilot this program and we hope to reach additional 
          children in this way.”
The Pennsylvania Hunger 
          Action Center works to secure more rural sponsors for the Summer Food 
          Service Program across the state. Hunger Action’s Sue Mitchem, who has 
          been doing outreach to recruit new summer meal sponsors, applauded the 
          change.  “When school lunches cease in June, many families struggle 
          to fill the gap.  Lowering area eligibility to 40 percent in rural areas 
          will mean less red tape for schools and local organizations that choose 
          to sponsor the SFSP.  As a result, we expect more needy children will 
          receive a nutritional supplement over the summer and return to school 
          ready to learn.”
The Summer Food Service Program is a program operated 
          by the U.S. Department of Agriculture that provides funds for eligible 
          sponsoring organizations (schools, public agencies, and non-profits) 
          to serve nutritious meals in summer to children 18 or younger at approved 
          sites in a qualifying area.
CONTACT
More information on the Summer Food Service Program 
          or the rural demonstration project is available for the Pennsylvania 
          Hunger Action Center (717-233-6705) or the Pennsylvania Department of 
          Education (717-772-3529).
***
(Harrisburg, PA)  Schools 
          and community organizations will have greater flexibility in establishing 
          sites to serve summer meals to needy rural children during the summers 
          of 2005 and 2006 thanks to a summer food demonstration project authorized 
          for Pennsylvania as part of the Child Nutrition and Reauthorization 
          Act of 2004 signed into law by President Bush on June 30.
(R-York/Adams/Cumberland), 
          will allow SFSP sponsors to operate “open enrollment sites” and qualify 
          for federal reimbursement of all meals served in rural areas where at 
          least 40 percent of the children qualify for free or reduced price school 
          lunches.  Current law sets the required level at 50 percent.  Rural 
          areas with many needy children often do not meet the 50 percent standard 
          because low-income families reside across a wide area rather than in 
          neighborhood clusters.
The demonstration project, originally sponsored by 
          Congressman Todd Platts