
MANTEC is a resource created to provide manufacturers customized solutions to deliver quantifiable results in productivity, profitability and competitiveness. For companies willing to commit to improvement, MANTEC offers assistance in all facets of manufacturing enterprises.  MANTEC leverages private and public monies to provide cost-effective solutions from proven providers and, for those companies that qualify, assistance dollars to provide an additional catalyst for investment and growth.
"The cutbacks in the federal funding will force MANTEC to stretch our decreasing resources even further to meet increasing demand from our manufacturing clients", commented John W. Lloyd, President and CEO of MANTEC.   "I am disappointed, given the heightened concern over the state of American manufacturing, that Congress and the Administration would cut a program that everyone agrees has been highly effective."
In South Central Pennsylvania, the region's approximately 2800 small manufacturers receive services through MANTEC.  MEP clients report impressive improvements as a direct result of MEP assistance.  For a 12 month period, MANTEC clients reported $67.48 million in new or retained sales, $10.9 million in cost savings, $20.1 million in new investments in modernization, and over 1145 jobs retained or created. Federal MEP dollars supports approximately a third of MANTEC's budget and would mean redefinition of customer services and potential curtailment of certain activities over the long-term.
CONTACT:John W. Lloyd, MANTEC, Inc, 717 843-5054
Pennsylvania has lost an estimated 198,000 manufacturing jobs since the beginning of November 2000, contributing to the total loss of employment for 2.5 million American manufacturing workers.  The South Central Region of Pennsylvania has lost more than 24,000 manufacturing jobs in that time.
Commenting on the cuts, the Honorable Todd Platts, Republican from the 19th Congressional District of Pennsylvania observed, "Many local manufacturers have contacted me about the critically important role that the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) has played in helping them stay competitive in today's marketplace.  In light of the significant benefits of the MEP program to our Nation's manufacturers and the significant challenges still facing the manufacturing sector, it makes no sense to be cutting the MEP budget at this time, especially by such a large percentage."
Washington, DC:  Congressional appropriators agreed to gut the main federal program, the Manufacturing Extension Partnership, which serves America's small manufacturers, despite the 300 members of Congress who supported $110 million in letters to the CJS Subcommittee leadership.  Senators Arlen Specter and Rick Santorum as well as Representatives Todd Platts, Joseph Pitts, Tim Holden and Bill Shuster all supported full funding for MEP as a way to combat the decline in U.S. manufacturing.
MEP, a public-private program, provides small manufacturers with critical support to bolster the domestic production base and keep manufacturing jobs in the United States. As a federal-state-private partnership, MEP supports a national network of over 60 centers with 400 locations across the country and Puerto Rico providing technical assistance and business support services to small manufacturers.  The cuts in MEP would result in deep cuts in state-based programs across the country.
Congress will provide only $39.6 million for MEP in Fiscal Year 2004, a 63 percent cut from the current funding level.  Last year, Congress provided MEP with $106.6 million.  The cut to MEP came during last minute wrangling over a final Omnibus Appropriations bill that would provide about $700 billion for up to 12 federal departments.
Back to Summary Page

Home Page