
"Despite the obvious benefits that SBDCs accomplish in countless communities, 
  funding for the program has remained at the same level since 2001," said 
  Representative Joseph Hoeffel. Representative Tim Holden points out that this 
  means that, "funding for our nation's SBDC network has actually decreased 
  in real terms since 2001."
As the largest statewide provider of entrepreneurial services, the SBDCs play 
  a unique and vital role in the Commonwealth's economic development initiatives 
  as the only organization that:
Bipartisan Group of Federal Representatives Call for Expanding 
  the SBDC Program
"The SBDC provides small businesses with the tools necessary to compete 
  in the global economy at minimal cost to the American taxpayer," remarks 
  Representative Todd Platts. Furthermore, explains Representative Joseph Pitts, 
  "the small business sector is creating most of the new jobs in America, 
  and we should be doing more to help those Americans who want to invest in our 
  economic future."
Representative Curt Weldon sums up the group's shared support of the SBDC program 
  by noting, "an investment in generating more small businesses will create 
  jobs, spur innovation and increase tax revenue."
For additional information on the Pennsylvania SBDC program, please contact 
  Ryan Gonzales at (215) 898-1219 or ryan3@wharton.upenn.edu
"On behalf of the 35,000 entrepreneurs assisted each year by the 16 Small 
  Business Development Centers in Pennsylvania, we are very grateful for this 
  strong showing of support from the state's elected officials in Washington," 
  states Pennsylvania SBDC State Director Gregory L. Higgins, Jr. "If we 
  should receive this funding, the SBDCs will increase capabilities to help start 
  new businesses and stimulate job creation all across the Commonwealth."
PHILADELPHIA, PA, September 20, 2004 - A bipartisan 
  group of Pennsylvania's federal representatives are calling for increased funding 
  of the SBDC program in the next federal budget (fiscal year 2005). The increased 
  funds would be used to expand the program to help more entrepreneurs start and 
  grow successful businesses. Leading the push for boosting the SBDC program are 
  Senator Arlen Specter (R) and Representatives Joseph Hoeffel (D-13), 
  Tim Holden (D-17), Joseph Pitts (R-16), Todd Platts (R-19), 
  and Curt Weldon (R-7).
The Pennsylvania Small Business Development Centers are funded by the Commonwealth 
    of Pennsylvania, the U.S. Small Business Administration, the private sector 
    and the host colleges and universities. This support enables consulting services 
    to be provided at no charge. SBDCs are located at Bucknell University, Clarion 
    University, Duquesne University, Gannon University, Indiana University, Kutztown 
    University, Lehigh University, Lock Haven University, Penn State University, 
    Saint Francis University, Saint Vincent College, Temple University, University 
    of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, University of Pittsburgh, University of 
    Scranton, and Wilkes University.
PRESS RELEASE
Since 1990, the SBDCs have helped Pennsylvania entrepreneurs: