
Collection Specialist — Opportunity exists for a
                    results-oriented person to handle all phases of collection
                    activities for delinquent loans. Position includes seeking
                    and approving home equity, VISA and auto loans. Consumer
                    collections and lending experience at a credit union or
                    finance company is preferred. Competitive wages and
                    benefits. No evenings or weekends. Complete application in
                    person or send resumé to: President, POSTMARK CU, 2630
                    Linglestown Road, Harrisburg, PA 17110-3666.
A mini golf fundraiser was sponsored by the Allegheny-Kiski
                    Valley Chapter on June 1. More than 70 people, young and
                    old, played in the 18-hole event. The chapter raised over
                    $2,000, for a charity to be named in the future. League
                    directors Lanny Horn, John Gulick and John Richards were
                    among the attendees, along with League Development
                    Consultant Monika Scott.
Among the 300 people attending the
                    fundraiser luncheon were Congressmen Phil English, Joe
                    Pitts, Todd Platts, Don Sherwood and, of course, Gekas.
                    League staff attending included: Jim McCormack, League
                    President/CEO; Jan Hartman, Vice President, Governmental
                    Affairs; and Christina Dunn, Governmental Affairs
                    Specialist. The staff had the opportunity to speak with
                    Congressman Gekas, as well as Representatives Joe Pitts and
                    Todd Platts.
When targeting age groups, the study recommends that you
                    further segment by marital status and presence of children,
                    to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of your
                    marketing campaign. Using age alone, the researchers found,
                    has significant shortcomings because age segmentation may
                    mask large differences within age groups.
Bedekovic replaced James Kauffman Jr.,
                    who resigned to become Vice President of Compliance for
                    Household International in Chicago. Currently serving as the
                    department’s Deputy Secretary for Depository Financial
                    Institutions, Bedekovic is Acting Secretary, pending her
                    Senate confirmation.
The Pennsylvania Credit Union Foundation
                    continues to lead the way in Major Gifts Fundraising
                    Activities. Its annual Arts Expo and Raffle continues to be
                    a model for marketing the Foundation, as well as a valuable
                    fund raising tool. It is also apparent that the Foundation
                    continues to provide a greater number of grants to its
                    constituency than do other Foundations at this stage.
The bill is expected to be voted on by the State Senate
                    in the coming weeks. This measure is intended to help offset
                    the budget shortfall that is being faced by state lawmakers.
Bob Macey, Marketing Manager for Century Heritage FCU
                    in West Mifflin, was appointed to the Allegheny County
                    Airport Authority Board. Macey has an undergraduate degree
                    in business management and is a Certified Marketing
                    Executive. He holds a commercial pilot’s license and is a
                    co-founder of the Allegheny Flying Club, which is located at
                    the Allegheny County Airport.
The session is free, but seating is limited to four
                    persons from each credit union. A continental breakfast and
                    lunch will be provided. For more information or to register,
                    contact Lauren Bethea, NCUA Economic Development Specialist,
                    800-827-6282, ext. 21402. Registration deadlines are July 8,
                    Philadelphia; July 22, Pittsburgh; and July 29,
                    Wilkes-Barre.
The Lan-Chester Chapter awarded three $500
                    scholarships for the Penn State School in August. They were
                    awarded to: Chuck Jackson, Keystone FCU; Renee Leaman,
                    Wheatland FCU; and Jacquelyn Dana Thomas, Citadel
                    FCU.
Pennsylvania Central FCU, Harrisburg, is offering a
                    $1,000 scholarship again this year. All high school
                    graduates, who are members, are eligible to apply for the
                    scholarship award by preparing a typed 300-word essay on the
                    topic, "What should a young adult expect from a
                    financial institution and why?"
"Fran Bedekovic has an impressive
                    background in the banking industry, starting as a teller
                    fresh out of college, then working her way up to become a
                    sales manager, commercial lender and eventually a senior
                    vice president," Gov. Schweiker said. "Fran knows
                    and understands the needs of Pennsylvania’s financial
                    institutions and their customers. Her experience in the
                    banking industry and her dedication to the Commonwealth will
                    serve her well in this new position."
Gekas faces a challenge from Democratic
                    U.S. Rep. Tim Holden, who is seeking a fifth term, in the
                    November 5 general election. Holden is now part of the newly
                    redrawn 17th District in central Pennsylvania, which has
                    been served by Gekas. The luncheon raised $200,000,
                    including money contributed by supporters who did not attend
                    the event.
Vice President Dick Cheney was in
                    Harrisburg on Friday, June 7 to lend his support to U.S.
                    Rep. George Gekas’ re-election bid. During the fundraiser
                    luncheon, Cheney devoted much of his 20-minute speech to
                    President Bush’s efforts to improve security in the
                    aftermath of the September 11 terrorist attacks.
With the kids out of school and families now making
                    summer vacation a priority, the credit union expects to be
                    quite busy processing vacation loans in the weeks ahead.
                    "Credit union members have come to depend on our
                    special promotions," said Amato.

LANCO FCU, Lancaster, held a month-long fundraiser
                    for Children’s Miracle Network (CMN). Each Friday in May,
                    rolls of Lifesavers were given out to any member who donated
                    to CMN. The Lifesavers were wrapped with a LANCO sticker
                    that read "I am a Lifesaver, I donated to CMN!"
                    The credit union raised $300.
The following credit unions recently signed contracts for
                    programs that will help expand services to their members:
                    Freedom United FCU, Certegy EFD; West York Area
                    School District Employees FCU, CUCheck Card; and Wilkes-Barre
                    Postal FCU, Platinum Card.
"Our loan officers and marketing department are
                    extremely busy promoting and preparing our members for
                    summer fun with our Aloha Loan Special," according to
                    Amy Amato, Marketing Representative.
The network facilitates communication,
                    creates and fosters partnerships and defines the role of
                    development through the sharing of resources among its
                    member organizations. The meeting provides Foundations with
                    an opportunity to network with one another and exchange
                    marketing materials. It combined peer presentations and
                    facilitated discussions, with topics ranging from marketing
                    and fundraising ideas, to regulations and foundation
                    accounting.
The NCUF, through the Ohio Foundation,
                    issued a legal manual that provides the legal framework for
                    the establishment and the operation of a Foundation. Its
                    contents can be used as a legal reference to all fundraising
                    and grants-making activities.
Joe Wambach, Executive Director of the
                    Pennsylvania Credit Union Foundation, found the discussions
                    far more sophisticated than in the past. "The session
                    provided the most definitive accounting and regulatory
                    information I’ve ever seen. This will assure that State
                    Foundations are run efficiently and properly. I can’t wait
                    to see what the next meeting will be like," Wambach
                    said.
Ready or not, it’s time for a vacation and Penn East
                    Federal Credit Union in Scranton is helping to get its
                    members off to their vacation getaways.
A flyer has been designed to promote the credit union’s
                    Aloha Loan Special — a low-interest vacation loan,
                    available between June 3 and August 2. Members may apply for
                    a loan, up to a maximum of $3,000 for a 12-month term at
                    6.99 percent APR. For those members who apply for a credit
                    union Visa card at the fixed rate of 10.25 percent APR, they
                    will receive an additional one-half percent off the low
                    vacation loan rate.
Manager — Immediate opening for qualified
                    individual with accounting experience to run a small credit
                    union. Reliable, self-motivated individual who possesses
                    excellent organizational and time management skills.
                    Part-time position with 24 hours a week. Decent salary, but
                    no benefits. Send resumé to T. C. W. H. #585 FCU,

The State Senate Appropriations Committee voted
                    unanimously on June 4 to report Senate Bill 1222, the State
                    Credit Union Parity Bill, out of committee. At Keystone
                    Extra press-time, the bill was awaiting a full Senate
                    vote.
A bill that would change the amount of time necessary to
                    declare property in financial institutions abandoned is
                    moving towards passage in Harrisburg. Senate Bill 1366,
                    sponsored by Senator Joe Conti, would reduce the amount of
                    time from seven years to five years before unclaimed
                    property held by financial institutions would be transferred
                    to the State Treasury.
Four employees from PALCO FCU in Muncy — Janice
                    Laubscher, Stephanie Harris, Gale Laubacher and Tom Rachael
                    — participated in the Geisinger Hospital’s Children’s
                    Miracle Network Carnival earlier this month.
The League and NCUA will be holding several regional
                    Small Credit Union Workshops this summer: July 13,
                    Philadelphia; July 27, Mars (Pittsburgh); and August 3,
                    Wilkes-Barre. The hands-on informative programs will cover
                    marketing, how to attract and retain volunteers and paid
                    staff, a look at the economy, technology, products and
                    services and financial statements. You’ll also get an
                    update on NCUA hot topics.
"We are very pleased by the unanimous vote in the
                    Appropriations Committee and continue to ask credit unions
                    to contact their State Senators to urge a favorable vote on
                    the Senate floor," said Jan Hartman, League Vice
                    President of Governmental Affairs. The bill allows state
                    chartered credit unions to petition the Secretary of Banking
                    for field of membership, powers or credit union service
                    organizations as allowed by the Federal Credit Union Act.
Twenty-six people representing 16 state
                    foundations and the National Credit Union Foundation (NCUF)
                    spent time in Hershey, June 5-7, networking with one another
                    at the State Credit Union Foundation Network meeting. The
                    meeting, hosted by the Pennsylvania Credit Union League, was
                    opened by League President/CEO Jim McCormack.
The study examines the various aspects that define
                    financial service needs among households in which the head
                    is between the ages of 35 and 64 and is the second of four
                    studies on life cycling marketing for credit unions
                    published by the Filene Research Institute.
Gov. Mark Schweiker nominated Frances A.
                    Bedekovic of Mechanicsburg, Cumberland County, to be
                    Secretary of the Department of Banking, effective June 5.
The Banking Department regulates
                    Pennsylvania state-chartered banks, non-depository trust
                    companies, savings and loan associations, and credit unions.
                    The department also licenses more than 12,000 non-depository
                    financial services companies making or brokering various
                    types of consumer loans.
Members visiting the credit union are greeted with
                    colorful posters and palm tree decals that decorate the
                    lobby and remind them of this seasonal promotion. The credit
                    union’s SEGs have been pro-vided with flyers and statement
                    stuffers promoting the loan special. Ads were also placed in
                    local publications that serve groups within the credit union’s
                    field of membership.
Citadel FCU, Thorndale, recently awarded $1,000
                    Future Business Leader Scholarships to four high school
                    seniors, who are credit union members. All applicants were
                    required to achieve a grade point average of 3.0 or higher
                    and be enrolled in a business major at a college, university
                    or business school. Applicants were judged on a 500-word
                    essay about credit unions.
Note: You can be a part of "CU Summer Fair" by
                    sending your credit union’s summer promotions or
                    activities information to jjohnson@pacul.org.
Manager — Qualified applicant for full-time
                    position. This person must possess excellent accounting
                    skills, along with good people skills. Credit union
                    experience is preferred. Hours of operation are currently
                    Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
                    Competitive salary and excellent benefit program. Forward
                    your resumé with salary requirements to: Erie County
                    Federal Credit Union, 135 East 38th Street, Erie, PA 16504,
                    Attention: Board of Directors. Resumé may be faxed to
                    814-860-2100.
A recent study issued by the Filene Research Institute, Life
                    Cycle Marketing for Credit Unions: Mid Age Households,
                    suggests that credit unions don’t do enough to segment
                    their marketing strategies.