
SENATE: An amendment to halve the cost of the tax cuts at $350 billion is likely to come up for a vote today. Sponsored by moderate Democrats and Republicans--Senators Baucus (D-MT), Breaux (D-LA), Voinovich (R-OH), and Snowe (R-ME)--halving the tax cut is a step in the right direction, but it is still unacceptable. At the end of the process, the most responsible course of action for Senators would be to vote against any budget resolution that still includes a large tax cut.
Only 12 moderate Republicans are needed to defeat the House budget resolution, if all Democrats remain united against the President's proposal. Below is the key list of moderate Republicans and Democrats that need to hear from their constituents. Contact them today and urge them to oppose the current House Budget resolution and any budget resolution that includes $726 billion in tax cuts for the wealthy. If your member has already expressed opposition (those with*), thank them for their support.
KEY TARGETS:
If their amendment to reduce the tax cut does fail, Voinovich, Snowe and Collins (R-ME) may instead vote for a budget resolution that has the President's $726 billion tax cut figure instead, in an effort to pass a budget resolution to avoid the appropriations process from becoming bogged down, as it was in fiscal year 2003.
Residents of MAINE and OHIO are urged to contact their Senators--specifically Voinovich, Snowe, and Collins--and urge them not use the failure of their amendment to limit the tax cut as an excuse to vote for the larger budget resolution.
To reach your members, call the Capitol Switchboard: 202-224-3121.
HOUSE: Eleven House Republicans sent a letter on Friday to House Budget Chairman Nussle (R-IA) and House Speaker Dennis Hastert (R-IL) saying they opposed a budget resolution that includes $726 billion in tax cuts and severe cuts in entitlement spending programs. The moderate Republicans who signed the letter include: Amo Houghton, Jack Quinn and Sue Kelly of New York; Mike Castle of Delaware; Nancy Johnson and Rob Simmons of Connecticut; Jo Ann Emerson of Missouri; Fred Upton of Michigan; Todd Platts of Pennsylvania; Steven LaTourette of Ohio and Ray LaHood of Illinois.