
On November 6, 2003, the full Committee on Government Reform marked up the version of the legislation that was marked up at the Government Efficiency Subcommittee, without the additional changes made by the Select Committee. A bipartisan majority of the members of the Committee were present, and Subcommittee Chairman Platts' amendment was adopted unanimously by voice vote and ordered reported favorably to the full House of Representatives.
Department as well as receive comments from the Administration regarding the proposed legislation. Witnesses at the hearing included OMB Controller Linda Springer, GAO Financial Management Director McCoy Williams, DHS Chief Financial Officer Bruce Carnes, and DHS Assistant Inspector General for Audit Richard Berman.
On May 6, 2004, the House Committee on Government Reform again convened to consider the Department of Homeland Security Financial Accountability Act. The Committee laid on the table its previous order to report H.R. 2886 to the House and moved to consider H.R. 4259. H.R. 4259 was introduced by Government Efficiency Subcommittee Chairman Todd Platts (R-PA), along with Chairman Tom Davis, Rep. Waxman (D-CA), Chairman Chris Cox (R-CA), Rep. Towns (D-NY), Rep. Jim Turner (D-TX), and Rep. Blackburn (R-TN) on May 4, 2004 and referred to the House Committee on Government Reform and in addition the Select Committee on Homeland Security. H.R. 4259 represents a compromise between the House Government Reform Committee and the Select Committee on Homeland Security. H.R. 4259 incorporates key changes requested by the House Government Reform Committee Ranking Minority Member, Mr. Waxman and the Select Committee on Homeland Security. These changes include providing for the establishment of an Office of Program Analysis and Evaluation (OPA&E), and requiring a Future Years Homeland Security Program and Homeland Security Strategy. The Select Committee on Homeland Security also requested altering the reporting structure for the DHS CFO to allow for dual reporting to both the Secretary and the Undersecretary for Management, and H.R. 4259 incorporates that change. Finally, the new bill also delays the requirement for the Department's internal control audit until Fiscal Year 2006. H.R. 4259 was ordered favorably reported, by voice vote, the House of Representatives.
On September 24, 2003, the Subcommittee on Government Efficiency and Financial Management held a business meeting to mark up H.R. 2886. The Subcommittee's Chairman, Representative Platts, offered an amendment in the nature of a substitute, which made the following changes to the bill: (1) removed the fiscal year 2003 waiver for DHS' compilation and audit of its financial statements, (2) delayed the requirement for DHS to obtain an audit opinion on its internal controls from fiscal year 2004 until fiscal year 2005, and (3) required the CFO Council and the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency (PCIE) to complete a joint study on the potential costs and benefits of requiring all of the CFO Act agencies to obtain audit opinions of their internal controls over their financial reporting. The amendment in the nature of a substitute was adopted unanimously by voice vote.
On July 24, 2003, Subcommittee on Government Efficiency and Financial Management Chairman Todd Platts (R-PA) introduced H.R. 2886, the `Department of Homeland Security Financial Accountability Act,' along with full Committee Chairman Tom Davis (R-VA) and Ranking Member Henry Waxman (D-CA), and Committee Members Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) and Edolphus Towns (D-NY). The bill was referred to the Government Reform Committee in addition to the Select Committee on Homeland Security.

On October 30, 2003, the House Select Committee on Homeland Security marked up an amendment in the nature of a substitute to H.R. 2886, offered by Chairman Cox (R-CA), which incorporated the changes made at the Government Efficiency Subcommittee's markup. In addition to the changes included in Representative Platts' amendment, Chairman Cox's amendment at the Homeland Security Committee's markup also included the following changes to the Homeland Security Act: (1) required the Secretary to transmit to Congress a comprehensive report on the national homeland security strategy of the United States at the same time that the President submits his annual budget request to the Congress, (2) established an Office of Program Analysis and Evaluation whose purpose is to link financial management and budgeting with program analysis and evaluation, (3) stipulated that whenever DHS provides notice of reprogramming of appropriations to the Congress, the CFO must also notify both the House Select Committee on Homeland Security and the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs, and (4) required the CFO in addition to reporting to the Secretary on financial management matters to report to the Under Secretary for Management with respect to the CFO's other responsibilities. A bipartisan majority of the members of the Committee were present, and Chairman Cox's amendment was adopted unanimously by voice vote and ordered to be reported favorably to the full House of Representatives.
On September 10, 2003, the Government Efficiency Subcommittee held a hearing on the legislation entitled `Establishing Sound Business Practices at the Department of Homeland Security.' The purpose of the hearing was to discuss financial management challenges at the