

Even then these newly-developed statements
sometimes directly contradict what
Todd has said or done in the past, a situation
which calls into question his sincerity and integrity.  More often,
they merely point out how much he has yet to learn.  In nearly every case,
Todd relies on the use of platitudes, which give the impression that he
knows and cares about the issues of concern to his constituents, while in
reality saying nothing.
Note:  for a recap of the
Constitutionally questionable methods Todd used to oppose this project, see 
Platitude #9.
#4b.  If and when the war on terrorism
returns to Iraq, we will face other obstacles besides Saddam's armies and his
potential use of weapons of mass destruction:  the opposition of Todd's
newfound friends in the Turkish government.  In fact they have already
officially voiced their displeasure over America's desire to topple Saddam,
since the likely outcome (in Turkish eyes) will be the installation of an
autonomous Kurdish Republic in what is now northern Iraq.  Since President
Bush's State of the Union address, Turkey has become even more adamant,
siding strongly with Iraq against possible American intervention in the
region.
Platitude #5:  Property
tax reform.
Since Ronald Reagan instituted
supply-side economic principles in his 1982 budget, our country has experienced
two decades of nearly uninterrupted economic growth, with only a few relatively
mild and short recessionary periods.  The political battle since has
revolved around finding the right mix of government control versus free markets
to keep the economy humming while also providing the funds necessary to
implement key government services.  Democrats have generally favored more
government control over the private sector, Republicans less.
At least he got the "yes or
no" part right, but by then such an outcome was a given -- leaders of both
political parties were backing their own version of tax relief.  What was
telling about Todd's prediction was that he was  supporting the liberal,
Democrat proposal  of targeted cuts (giving relief to special interest
groups) against the Republican version that gave the surplus back to those
taxpayers who paid it!
Todd needs to become aware of the historical context of such a
statement from Ankara.  The Turks have for more than two decades been waging
(and losing) a war of annihilation against the Kurdish minority living in their
easternmost provinces, along their common border with Iraq.  These are the
same Kurds that Saddam Hussein tried to eliminate in his country through the use
of chemical warfare, and whom the United States and its allies have been
protecting since 1991 by maintaining a "no-fly zone" in northern
Iraq.  It is clear that long-standing U.S. policy is for the protection of
the Kurds, as it should be for persecuted ethnic minorities wherever they are
found.  Less scrupulous countries have used the terrorism argument before
in their quest to squash legitimate yearnings for self-determination from
oppressed minorities within their own borders (Russia vs. Chechnya, as a recent
example), so it should come as no "surprise" to anyone who is paying
attention that such questionable methods would come to play in the present
crisis.
Platitude
#11:  Making good use of limited political clout.
As a state that ranks second only to Florida in the
percentage of retired persons in its general population, Pennsylvania has for
years faced a crisis in how it pays for public education.  Relying on
property taxes as the exclusive source of funding for local school districts
forces seniors, on limited income yet as owners of increasingly higher valued
homes, into a quandary.  Too often, those least able to pay these taxes are
the ones shouldered with the highest bills.
President Bush was elected, in
part, because of his pledge to "leave no child behind" in reforming
our nation's education system.  Yet by the time his legislation had passed
through Congress, Republicans were referring to the act as "Ted Kennedy's
Education Bill", bearing no resemblance to Bush's vision.  Although
the president put on a good front in presenting the final bill to the public, it
was missing a key aspect that would have made it work as intended.
Platitude #1:  Energy
policy.
Once enacted at the statewide
level, some school districts took the initiative to attempt to enact this reform
locally.  One of the first was Dover, which fell partially within Todd's
196th house district.  As the opposing sides became increasingly
contentious and started attracting the attention of the press, Todd stepped into
the spotlight to "mediate" the situation.  Once again, however,
he provided no answers, and did not give his opinion on whether the proposal was
a good one or not.  He gave his constituents no guidance or leadership, and
provided no expertise.  He merely wanted to show the public his
"concern", so that he would come out on top no matter which way the
voting went.
While we may have turned a blind eye
to potential atrocities committed by the Turkish government due to its status as
a NATO ally and a partner in the Gulf War and other follow-on missions against
Saddam Hussein, we must steer clear of the outright condoning of such policies
of ethnic cleansing through either word or deed.  Could it be possible that
the Turks, emboldened by a positive reaction to their situation by a visiting
U.S. Congressional delegation, now view themselves as having a "green
light" to apply the full force of their military and police organizations
against the Kurds, as they did in the documented genocide of their Armenian minority some
85 years ago?  This clearly is an ethical situation that the United States
must avoid if we are to maintain our high moral standing within the free world,
and one that is no place for foreign policy amateurs to tread.
As a member of the House Committee
on Education and the Workforce, Todd was one of just 4 Republicans who voted with
the Democrats to eliminate real school choice from the President's
plan.  In the final bill, students can only choose between schools within
the same failing school district.
Everyone
was on board to bring the National Army Museum to Carlisle.  Then-Governor
Tom Ridge even presided over a groundbreaking ceremony just outside the gates of
the historic Carlisle Barracks.  All that was needed was final word from
Washington.
Note to Todd:  The typical
child-care credit is $480 per child per year, which is only about one-twentieth,
or 5%, of what a family pays in tuition to a high-quality educational program.
All other minor issues aside, the
basic philosophical difference between the Republican and Democratic parties is
one of economics.  Democrats and others on the left side of the
political spectrum generally follow (since the disgrace of communism) the
theories of Englishman John Maynard Keynes, who espoused strong government
control of the economy.  Whenever a politician talks of increasing taxes so
that the government can spend more in order to boost the economy, he or she is
claiming the supremacy of Keynesian principles.
Note:  That Todd got
involved in this issue strictly for public relations purposes is a theory that is
collaborated by this fact:  the metal poles are still there. 
Once the story disappeared from the public spotlight, Todd dropped the ball and
failed to follow up on his "genuine concerns".
Platitude
#8:  Modernizing our Armed Forces
The
Issues:     Energy Policy    
Tax Policy     Childcare    
Foreign Policy     Property
Tax Reform     Charter Schools    
Educational Choice     Modernizing
our Armed Forces     Constitutional
Rights      Supporting
Local Republican Candidates    Making good
use of limited political clout    The Army
Museum Debacle        Economic
Policy 101

A freshman Member of
Congress has little political clout; he or she must exercise good judgment in
picking which battles to fight, so as not to waste one's limited influence on
trivial matters.
Why is school choice so important
to this bill?  It is because the centerpiece of the legislation is accountability,
with mandatory testing to prove which schools are performing to standard and
which are not.  Yet without real school choice, it's an unenforceable
guarantee -- parents of children in failing schools have no recourse but to stay
in the same poorly-performing district.  They have no power, as they would
in a free marketplace, to force the changes necessary to give their children a
chance at a better education, and a better life.
State representative Will Gabig
(R, Carlisle) knows where the blame lies.  As reported in the Carlisle Sentinel, Gabig says that Platts never gave the museum due consideration, and
that Todd lacked the gravitas to bring the project home to his
district.  Instead, the designation went to Fort Belvior, in the Virginia
congressional district of Democrat Jim Moran.
Instead, the Army purchased a 
wheeled  APC that cost over ten times as much per vehicle, and is built by
a General Motors subsidiary in Canada.  The armored gun version of
the platform does not meet the airlift criteria (it's too tall to fit in a
C-130) and has to be extensively redesigned, costing millions more and delaying
delivery by years if not decades.  In the meantime, the United States is
involved in exactly the type of missions -- peacekeeping, and combat in remote
areas of the world -- for which the IBCT was designed.  If the Army had
fielded the M-8 Armored Gun when it became available, it would be ready now
to take on Soviet-made T-55 tanks in Afghanistan, Iran, or Iraq, if necessary.
Platitude #7:  Educational
Choice
For those who are unfamiliar with
the term, a little history lesson is in order.  In the 1950s, U.S. Senator
Joseph McCarthy used similar tactics in his search, as chairman of the Senate
Internal Security Subcommittee, for suspected communists in the U.S.
government and in key industries, such as motion pictures.  Personal and professional
reputations were tarnished, and lives ruined, as McCarthy accused law-abiding American
citizens of treasonous acts based on rumor, innuendo, and secret
testimony.  Many were implicated due not to their own actions, but by
merely being an acquaintance of someone who was under suspicion.
In its half-hearted endorsement of Platts over the Democrat
opponent in the 2000 general election, the York Daily Record gave Todd
credit for "at least doing his homework" on such topics, a mantra that he
himself has adopted almost as a campaign slogan.  But that merely
translates into an admission of ignorance, and results in Todd simply parroting
the opinions of others, rather than developing his own (which takes time and
personal experience).  And in Todd's case, the "right time" to
make a statement usually comes after decisions have already been made, and the
public mood has already been measured.
#1b.  The events of September 11th have
made it even more urgent that America develop alternatives to Mideast oil, which
carries a price tag far beyond what we pay in dollars per barrel.  Yet as
late as June of last year, Todd was taking a stand against increased
domestic oil and gas production, voting for a Democrat-sponsored amendment that
curtailed oil and natural gas drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, which experts
believe may hold
oil reserves equal to those of Saudi Arabia.
#3b.  Working parents know how much of
their income goes to caring for their children, but Todd appears oblivious to
such facts.  In the above-mentioned committee hearing, a testimony-giving
child care provider turned the tables on Todd by actually asking a question
rather than just answering them.  Although the camera was focused on the
witness, the awkward silence showed Todd's discomfort at his lack of knowledge
about this topic.  The question dealt with the amount of child care tuition
that is deductible for tax purposes.  Todd had no idea, yet he portrays
himself as knowledgeable and understanding of the concerns of working parents.
The circumstances surrounding Act
50 are clearly just one more example of Todd's apparent political
philosophy:  Follow the polls, determine what's already popular or what can
provide good press coverage, don't take any stands that may be considered
controversial.  While this strategy may perpetuate his "nice guy"
image, it will not be found in anyone's definition of true courage and
leadership.

Platitudes
The problem also surfaces in
Pennsylvania's cities, where those students most often in need of increased
educational services are served by school districts whose taxing ability is
seriously curtailed by the generally lower property values, and the propensity
of tax-exempt agencies to locate, within city limits.  The state government
is supposed to make up the difference by guaranteeing to pay one-half of the
school's operating costs, but it has never adhered to this law (which is a
scandal in itself).
As reported in the local press,
Todd recently revealed to the membership of a local service organization that his
wife was assigned (as befitting the spouse of a junior legislator) a
less-than-optimal seat from which to view President Bush's September 20th speech to a
joint session of Congress.  Jumping to action on such a self-important matter,
our Representative demanded that the staff of House Speaker Dennis Hastert give
Mrs. Platts improved accommodations.  Todd's persistence was rewarded, and
his wife was able to view this historic address from a more convenient and
comfortable location.
As a constituent of Todd's 196th
state house district, I looked toward my representative in Harrisburg to provide
some answers as the referendum approached.  In typical politician fashion,
however, he took no definitive stand on the issue of tax reform, and did not
provide his analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the proposal.  He
stuck firmly to the middle of the road, urging us in his newsletter only to
"vote on this important issue".
No.  Afraid to tackle this
issue head-on, the state legislature came up with a way to avoid responsibility
on the minefield issue of changing tax policy.  Called "Act 50",
the legislation required action not by the legislature but by the public at
large:  Voters first had to approve the proposal in a statewide referendum,
then vote on it again to enact it within their local school district.
During the weekend of August 18 & 19, 2001, Todd
saturated local newspapers with an op-ed piece extolling the virtues of the
just-passed Energy Bill, stowing away on President Bush's accomplishments and in effect  taking credit for something which he had no
role in drafting.  In truth,  Todd's record on energy creation is
abysmal.
Having now given preference to an
obstinate Mr. Platts on such a trivial matter, is the staff of the Speaker -- or
for that matter the Speaker himself -- now more or less likely to respond to
more important requests from Todd in the future?  Has he squandered his
limited political capital in an arrogant gesture to gain temporary advantage for
his wife, at the expense of what he may have done for his constituents?
That word never came.
It's clear from this
statement where Todd sides on economic matters:  with the Democrats and
their failed Keynesian tutors, and against Republican free-marketeers and the
Reagan legacy.
Platitude #3:  Childcare.
Steve
Hildebrand

Attempting to play catch-up, Todd now
promises several hundred thousand dollars in federal spending on a second-tier
museum facility at Carlisle Barracks.  The problem with such a promise is
that it has been denounced by budget officials in the Bush White House as
unnecessary "pork barrel" spending that is unlikely to survive public
scrutiny, and is in conflict with the President's desire to promote effective
government at the expense of old-fashioned political patronage.
Why didn't Todd Platts come to
UDLP's defense in the IBCT decision-making process?  It's hard to tell,
because his only comment (after the fact) was that he "couldn't understand the
type of thinking" that led to such a decision.  Local newspapers had
to turn to former Congressman Bill Goodling for comprehensible answers.
The truth behind Platts campaign statements and
positions.
Again making the best use of the uncritical and unchallenged medium of local
cable television, Todd (as a state representative) hosted a subcommittee meeting
dealing with the issue of early childhood education.  While his intent was
to portray himself (during his 2000 campaign for Congress) as someone who was
concerned about the problems facing working parents and their children, he
merely showed his own duplicity on this
issue.
Platitude #2:  Tax Policy.
The arrest of sitting Mayor
Charles Robertson following his primary election victory presented a unique
opportunity for York City Republicans and their candidate Betty Schonauer. 
Fractured almost beyond repair by internal dissention, the Democrats seemed
headed for defeat in November.
By publicly endorsing the Democrat
in York's mayoral election, Todd squandered the opportunity to bring Republican
principles to a municipal government that has floundered under Robertson and his
rubber-stamp, all-Democrat city council.
Platitude
#9:  McCarthyism, or the abuse of one's Constitutional rights
FOR U.S.
CONGRESS
#1a.  As a state representative, he
sided with the environmental fringe and led
the fight against a high-tech, coal-fired power plant that was to be
constructed in Spring Grove, York County.  By opposing such alternative
energy proposals,   Todd guarantees our nation's continued dependence  on
the radical oil-exporting countries of the Middle East and contributes to the annual electricity shortages
that cause rolling blackouts in California and supply crises as close as
Philadelphia.  Who says so?  None other than Todd himself. 
Appearing on a locally-produced cable television program, he criticized
Californians for creating their own energy problems by "building no new
generation plants in ten years" while demand soared.  "Do the
math", he says, while failing to understand that the answer comes out the
same whether the equation is worked in California, or in Pennsylvania.
#1c.  Not only has Todd opposed the
production of energy, he also puts expensive obstacles in the way of
the transmission of that power to the user.  When constituents complained
two years ago about the aesthetics of having metal poles placed in their yards,
Todd went on a public relations campaign to have them replaced with wood --
after the original work had already been done and paid for.  Such an effort
served only to perpetuate Todd's public image; in a practical sense, it will cost
the end users of this power (that's you and me) plenty.
On Todd Platts' watch, local
defense contractor United Defense, LP (UDLP) lost out on a major Army
contract that has far-reaching implications not only for the local job market,
but for the long-term security of our nation as well.
#3a.  In April of 1997, Todd told us
where he stood on the idea of daycare for his  own kids:  he was vehemently
opposed to it.  So much so, that he made a public spectacle of taking his
newborn son to the state capitol with him on a daily basis.  Now, I don't
know how that translates into providing "early childhood education"
for little T.J., unless you consider his constant viewing of the elaborate
capitol ceiling as gaining an appreciation for the arts!  One must also
wonder how a public servant could get any work done while caring for an infant,
unless of course Todd occasionally enlisted his taxpayer-funded staff members as temporary
babysitters.  Now, there's an innovative remedy for the high costs of
quality childcare!
But rather than working to bring
lucrative contracts home to local manufacturers (see Platitude #8)
or gaining important national distinctions for area educational activities (see
Platitude #12), Todd prefers to give advantages to his
family members -- the antithesis of the type of selfless service we should
expect of our elected representatives.

See if you don't agree.  And check back often, because there are bound
to be
more  platitudes flying around  as the campaign heats up!
Platitude
#10:  Supporting local Republican candidates.
Experience
that speaks louder than words . . . .
Note:  Just three days
after I wrote this piece (and submitted it to the York Daily Record for publication), both ABC News and the BBC (via PBS) aired stories with
the same theme.  They concentrated on the possibility that Russia (which
Platts also courted on his trip) would use its status as an
"anti-terrorism" ally of the United States as cover in order to
escalate its assault on Chechnya.   -- Steve
McCarthy's actions were eventually halted by adverse public
opinion, and he was rightly censured by his Senate colleagues for impeding upon
the rights guaranteed by the  First (right of assembly) and  Sixth (right to
confront one's accusers) Amendments to the U.S. Constitution.  Today,
McCarthyism is viewed along with slavery, legalized segregation, and the
internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II, as among the most egregious
violations of the Constitutional rights of American citizens by their own
government.
#4a.  Todd recently made his first trip ever outside the borders of
the United States, securing (despite his having no previous experience in
foreign policy matters) a seat on a Congressional delegation to meet with potential
allies in the fight against worldwide terrorism.  Unfortunately, his
inexperience came shining through in a statement to local newspapers describing
his "surprise" at Turkish government claims that they have lost 40,000
citizens to acts of terrorism.  In Todd's view, this forms a
common bond between the United States and Turkey, and gives moral equivalency
with what the United States experienced on September 11.  He couldn't be
more wrong.
Over the past 40 years we have
seen textbook examples of each theory put into practice around the world. 
In socialist-leaning western Europe, Keynesian economics brought 150 years of
industrial revolution to an abrupt halt in the 1960s and early 1970s.  We
in the United States were able to hold out a little longer due to the sheer size
and diversity of our manufacturing base, but by the end of the 1970s we too had
double-digit inflation and unemployment.
Another cable TV show, different topic.  Asked in early 2001 by a local college
professor and economist about whether or not tax relief would be enacted in the
first session of the 107th Congress, Todd made a prediction that was not only
wrong, but also wrong-headed.  "There will be targeted,  not across the
board, tax cuts", said Todd.
In the recent debate over
"economic stimulus" legislation, the major sticking point is over
eliminating the alternative minimum tax  (AMT) for corporations to
allow businesses to invest in their company's future growth.  Free-market
economist Stephen Moore (a frequent Wall Street Journal contributor) has
claimed that the elimination of the AMT is the "most stimulating" of
all the provisions of the economic stimulus package.
Modern Republicans, on the other
hand, follow the guidance of the Austrian school, ideas maintained in this
country by the economists of the University of Chicago such as Milton Friedman
and Alan Greenspan.  Austrian (or supply-side) economics says that wealth
is created in the private sector, and that government policy should only make
minor adjustments when absolutely necessary.  The most obvious example of
this philosophy is the Federal Reserve's raising and lowering of interest rates
in order to buffer the normal fluctuations in the business cycle.
Platitude
#13:  Economic Policy 101
If Todd can make such a statement
under a Republican President and with a Republican majority in the House of
Representatives, how much of a pushover do you think he will be if he one day
finds himself in the minority?  This is one more example (see  #1,
#7, #10 and #13)
where Todd showed his true political colors, which are as left-of-center as any
Democrat.
Where does Todd Platts stand on
these basic economic issues?  Although he voted for the stimulus bill in
the house "only to move the process along", he was chastised for it by the
local press -- and has since changed his mind.  Should the bill pass the
Senate and the ensuing House/Senate conference, Todd has made it clear the he
"will not vote for any economic stimulus plan that eliminates the corporate
alternative minimum tax."
Todd may have been absent from Law
School the day they discussed the Constitution.  By resorting to such
tactics while serving as an elected representative of the people, he calls into
question his suitability to make the type of public safety vs. individual
liberty decisions we are contemplating as a result of the terrorist attacks
on September 11.  It also causes us to ask where Todd stands on other
constitutional questions.  While he has yet faced a close and contentious
vote on a  Second Amendment issue, he has always been a vocal supporter of the
type of campaign financing "reforms" that would curtail the type of
spending that the Court has already determined to be protected under the First.
But when the county Democratic
executive committee selected John Brenner to replace Robertson on the fall
ballot, they found that Brenner came with an unexpected ally:  Todd Platts.
In the competition to build the
prototype IBCT vehicles, United Defense offered what can only be described as a
taxpayer's dream.  Their infantry transport vehicle was based on the proven
M-113 Armored Personnel Carrier (APC), and could be fielded by cheaply upgrading
chassis that are  already in the Army inventory, bought and paid for.  For
firepower punch, UDLP had its M-8 Armored Gun System  already tested and approved
through Army channels.  Moreover, these vehicles both moved across the
battlefield on caterpillar-type tracks, which had been proven as superior
to wheels through decades of military testing.  Landing the contract would
have meant years of work at UDLP's York County plant.
Which begs the question:  Who
chaired that subcommittee when the original legislation was being
considered?  Who, therefore, is responsible for the mess in which we
currently find ourselves?
Whatever one's opinion on the idea
of Charter Schools, most people agree that the Pennsylvania law that allows
their establishment is full of both roadblocks and loopholes that need
fixing.  Local news outlets have, over the past several years, drawn the
public's attention to major problems that include questions over facility
ownership as well as concerns over quality of education, especially by
internet-based charter institutions.  In attempting to rectify these
problems, much credit belongs to state representative Jerry Nailor (R-Camp Hill), who
"chairs the subcommittee with responsibility over charter schools",
according to the York Dispatch.
plat'·i·tùde, n. [Fr.]  a
trite, dull, or commonplace remark, especially one uttered as if it were a
matter of importance.
In his zeal to halt the
construction of the coal-fired Cogeneration electricity plant (see #1 above), Todd engaged
in public accusations of illegal wrongdoing by the project's backers -- while 
refusing to provide the evidence on which those allegations were based. 
These questionable public relations tactics on Platts' part were rightly labeled
as "McCarthyism" by the local press.
Platitude #4:  Foreign
Policy.
And now Todd says he wants to be on the
Armed Services Committee, despite his having no experience in military
matters.  Could it be that he didn't want to "rock the boat"
while he was politicking for this plum political assignment, and therefore hung UDLP and its
employees out to dry in order to chase his own
ambition?
As a politician, Todd Platts can usually be counted on to say
the "right thing" at the "right time".  But where do his opinions come
from?  Certainly not from his own experience, which is seriously limited on
national issues.

Platitude #12:  The Army Museum
debacle.
Note:  On February 10, 2002, the CBS News show 60 Minutes agreed:  the way to reduce our
nation's dependence on foreign supplies of oil is to drill in the Gulf of Mexico
-- the option Todd Platts opposes.
In this York Daily Record front-page
photograph, Platts' Chief of Staff Bryan Tate (in front of TV camera) joins York
County Democrats in celebrating John Brenner's selection to run against
Republican Betty Schonauer in the 2001 York City mayoral election. 
With Platts' public endorsement, Brenner went on to defeat Schonauer despite the
stigma associated with Democrat incumbent Mayor Charles Robertson's arrest on
alleged, racially-motivated murder charges.
Platitude #6:  Charter
Schools
You would think that a politician
who sat on the House Education committee, (even chairing the subcommittee on
Basic Education) and who
refers to himself as being "for the people" would have made an effort
to find a positive solution to these problems.
While Todd Platts is quick to
volunteer that he voted against the final legislation in the full house, he
won't admit that it was his Subcommittee on Basic Education that should
have been monitoring the process from the start, and that he failed in
this basic responsibility.  The problems we now face --  pubic school
districts forced by the court to give newly-renovated school buildings over to
privately-run charter school corporations, and public school dollars
disappearing into cyberspace -- fall squarely into Todd Platt's lap.
The U.S. Army is currently
transforming from a heavy, Cold War "legacy" force to one that allows
it to more adequately react to changing world conditions.  The first step
in this process is the creation of an "interim" brigade combat team (IBCT)
that fills the void between rapidly-movable but vulnerable light forces, and
more survivable but slow-to-deploy heavy armored forces.  The major
requirement of the IBCT is that it be deployable anywhere in the world within 96
hours, aboard standard Air Force  cargo planes (C-130s and C-17s).