
At the Los Alamos laboratory in New Mexico, he said, officials have been unable to hire enough security people. For instance, he said, the facility now has fewer than half the security people it needs.
He announced that two retired admirals, both former commanders of the U.S. Strategic Command, will review separately aspects of the security situation at the weapons complexes, including the research laboratories, and into future manpower needs.
Brooks, head of the department's National Nuclear Security Administration, said he should have by next fall a good idea of the cost of necessary security improvements, and many nuclear facilities will have them in place sooner than the GAO estimated.
There has been a scattering of reports of security lapses at federal nuclear weapons labs and facilities in recent months. They ranged from lost keys, misuse of credit cars and stolen laptop computers to the failure to report for two years a small amount of missing plutonium.
Brooks described the incident with the missing plutonium as a bookkeeping problem and said the others did not have national security implications. Nevertheless, he said he was concerned about lax attitudes and "cultural problems" that produced the recent incidents.
"Security is lax. Our nuclear secrets are not safe," Grassley warned in testimony to the House panel.
"DOE's response has been slow in some vital respects," the GAO report said, and the department as well as NNSA "will need at least several years and as yet undetermined amount of resources before their sites are fully prepared to meet the projected threat."
Platts said he could not understand "the reasons for the delay given the seriousness of the threat."
Linton Brooks, head of the agency that oversees the nuclear weapons program, acknowledged it will take time to implement everything that is needed, but he said many of the security improvements already are in place.
Nor does the Energy Department have a reliable estimate of the costs of safeguards to defend against terrorists, the investigators told a House committee hearing.
Grassley said the van incident "was written up as routine auto theft" although no one had any idea what might have been inside the van. The crash occurred about the same time that a classified computer disappeared from the same area of the lab complex, said Grassley, citing information brought to his office by a whistle-blower.
While weapons facilities are facing increased security demands, a growing problem has emerged in finding enough trained security professionals at a time when private industry is vying for the same workers, Brooks acknowledged.
"Don't believe that we've been sitting around since Sept. 11," Brooks told the Government Reform subcommittee on national security. "We're trying o push things as fast as we can."
Rep. Todd Platts, R-Pa., questioned why security improvements aren't being made more quickly. He noted that only last month the Energy Department produced the so-called Design Basis Threat document, which lays out specific terrorist threat that nuclear facilities must be prepared to defend against in light of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
The GAO report said management problems, "confusion about roles and responsibilities" and staffing shortages make if difficult for the Energy Department "to effectively oversee security activities" of the private contractors running the weapons facilities.
In an incident described Monday by Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, a van crashed through a fence from a secure area of the Sandia National Laboratory in Albuquerque and later was found at a commercial parking lot.
Brooks said he had asked retired Adm. Richard W. Mies to look into physical security at the complexes and recommend improvements. Retired Adm. Hank Chiles, who formerly headed a commission that examined recruiting problems among nuclear weapons scientists, will review security staffing.