

AHCA: News 
        & Information

In addition, U.S. Senator Gordon Smith (R-OR) and five other GOP Senators 
        recently sent a letter to Senate Budget Committee Chairman Don Nickles 
        (R-OK) and Ranking Member Kent Conrad (D-ND) urging them “to protect 
        Medicaid from cuts in any final budget conference agreement for Fiscal 
        Year (FY) 2005.”
“We are encouraged that 27 GOP House members are voicing their 
        support for the many seniors and persons with disabilities who have already 
        been subjected to cuts in the benefits and services that make a real difference 
        in their lives,” stated Charles H. Roadman II, MD, CNA, President 
        and CEO of AHCA/NCAL. “We are hopeful the budget conferees will 
        recognize $2.2 billion Medicaid cuts will jeopardize care access, and 
        threaten the progress we are making to improve quality in long term care.”
The American Health Care Association (AHCA) is committed 
        to quality and performance excellence in the long term care profession 
        and actively support Quality First, a covenant for healthy, affordable, 
        and ethical long term care, and adherence to its principles and goals. 
        Nationwide, AHCA represents more than 10,000 non-profit and for-profit 
        facilities that are dedicated to professional and compassionate care to 
        more than one million elderly and disabled individuals daily in nursing 
        facilities, assisted living residences, subacute centers and homes for 
        persons with mental retardation and developmental disabilities.
The GOP Representatives who also signed the Burr-Boehlert letter are 
        Rob Simmons (CT), Robin Hayes (NC), Randy Cunningham (CA), John McHugh 
        (NY), Jim Leach (IA), Shelley Moore Capito (WV), Peter King (NY), Jim 
        Gerlach (PA), Johnny Isakson (GA), Donald Manzullo (IL), Greg Walden (OR), 
        Jim Ramstad (MN), George Radanovich (CA), Mary Bono (CA), Ralph Hall (TX), 
        Todd Platts (PA), George Nethercutt (WA), Christopher Smith (NJ), Ron 
        Paul (TX), Tim Johnson (IL), Christopher Cox (CA), Max Burns (GA), Jon 
        Porter (NV), Jeff Miller (FL) and Jo Ann Emerson (MO).
Washington, DC (April 21, 2004)—The American Health 
        Care Association (AHCA) and National Center for Assisted Living (NCAL) 
        today said a letter from U.S. Reps. Richard Burr (R-NC) and Sherwood Boehlert 
        (R-NY) to House Budget Chairman Jim Nussle (R-IA) urging him to remove 
        budgetary reconciliation instructions that would effectively cut $2.2 
        billion in FY 2005 Medicaid spending cuts is evidence of growing GOP support 
        to forego reductions in seniors’ benefits and services.
The Burr-Boehlert letter to Chairman Nussle states, “We strongly 
        urge you to protect health care services for Medicaid beneficiaries by 
        rejecting budget reconciliation instructions in the conference agreement 
        for the FY 2005 budget… Such a reduction is ill advised as states 
        across the nation are already cutting back on Medicaid funding and services… 
        This will have a devastating impact on Medicaid beneficiaries who are 
        among the most needy in our society.”
Dr. Roadman said cuts in Medicaid benefits and services would jeopardize 
        basic health care coverage for millions of Americans, shift the cost burden 
        to states just as temporary state fiscal relief is being phased out, and 
        contribute to financial instability in the long term care community.