
Mary Ann Evans of West Pennsboro Township, who attended with her two sons and a friend, said "We made the effort to go to Washington and New York because we think Bush is wrong and the war is wrong. Certainly we're going to come to Carlisle to let him know what we think.
"It's kind of like making a joyful noise here," said the Rev. Sandra Mackie, a Lutheran pastor from Dillsburg.
"By keeping our promise on June 30th, the coalition will demonstrate that we have no interest in occupation. And full sovereignty will give Iraqis a direct interest in the success of their own government.
And within an hour area businesses and watering holes switched their televisions from the usual sports programming to Bush's prime-time speech at the war college.
Rebuilding the country by focusing on reconstructing infrastructure.
The impromptu protest, organized after Bush's plans to visit Carlisle were announced Friday, drew diverse groups. Carrying signs and shouting slogans such as "Impeach Bush now," protesters encouraged people driving by to honk their horns in support.
More than a dozen Bush supporters also showed up - but only one argument got loud enough to attract police, who quickly ended the confrontation between two Vietnam War veterans who had served with the Army's 82nd Airborne Division. One is a Bush supporter - and the other isn't.
At a time of crisis, you want someone to take action right away, he added. "You've got to protect your homeland."
Interim government
"He said he wanted Osama dead or alive," Stouffer said.
Crowd protests with 'joyful noise'
Most of the protesters carried handmade signs with messages such as "Support the Troops, Bring Them Home Now," and "Not With Our Sons and Daughters."
Joan and Bill Freeman traveled from Shippensburg to protest. "We've been against the war from the beginning. There weren't convincing reasons why we went to war," Bill Freeman said.
The University of Pennsylvania's National Annenberg Election Survey, released Monday, found 64 percent of those surveyed did not believe Bush had a clear plan for Iraq.
The country was "taken to war by a president who didn't receive the majority of votes in the country."
"I think Bush has lied to us big time," he said. "The legitimacy of the war is completely in question."
Teenagers Sophia and Natalia Van Doren of Carlisle calmly played their violins in the midst of the crowd.
"Five Iraqi army battalions are in the field now, with another eight battalions to join them by July 1. The eventual goal is an Iraqi army of 35,000 soldiers in 27 battalions fully prepared to defend their country."
In a CBS News poll released Monday, Bush's job approval was at 41 percent, with 52 percent disapproving.
"Completing the five steps to Iraqi elected self-government will not be easy," Bush said. "There is likely to be violence before the transfer of sovereignty and after the transfer of sovereignty."
"We do support the troops but we don't want them to come home in body bags," he said.
In a prime-time speech at the U.S. Army War College, the president provided details of a five-point plan to transfer power in Iraq June 30. The 35-minute address is the first of a series of speeches Bush will give in the coming weeks as he attempts to rally public support for the war.
A national election to be held in January.
"There's one way to fight a war: Go in and do it," he later added. "What he's trying to do is win hearts and minds."
Otherwise the gathering took on a party atmosphere.
Other nations have not been stepping forward to make new pledges of military or humanitarian help. Still, Bush said, "Despite past disagreements, most nations have indicated strong support for the success of a free Iraq, and I am confident they will share in the responsibility of assuring that success."
The draft U.N. resolution urges nations to send troops for an international force - something the administration is anxious to see, with American troops stretched thin.
"Everybody's been talking about it," said Dan Miller, manager of the Gingerbread Man downtown, in the minutes leading up to the speech. "This is as big as it gets."
The assembly will draft a new constitution, which will be presented to the Iraqi people in a referendum scheduled for fall 2005, Bush said.
"Our coalition has already helped Iraqis to rebuild schools and refurbish hospitals and health clinics, repair bridges, upgrade the electrical grid and modernize the communication system."
Middlesex Township police blocked off both sides of Post Road on the east side of the installation more than an hour before the president's entourage of helicopters landed, and North Middleton Township police added security to the already highly guarded south entrance on Claremont Road.
Eliminating security threats and bolstering Iraqi police forces.
Hundreds of people lined North Hanover Street near the entrance to the Army War College Monday evening to peacefully protest President Bush's policies.
His job approval in polls by ABC News-Washington Post and CNN-USA Today-Gallup was 47 percent, near his lowest in those polls.
By LINDA FRANZ/The Sentinel
Carlisle resident Ken Albright attended with his wife to raise his voice in protest.
For example, the ministry of education has trained more than 30,000 teachers and supervisors for the schools of a new Iraq.
Iraqis will know that when they build a school or repair a bridge, they are not working for the Coalition Provisional Authority, they are working for themselves."
CARLISLE, Pa. -- President George W. Bush made a firm commitment to finish the job in Iraq Monday while also outlining a detailed exit strategy amid declining public support for the war.
Some patrons at the East High Street post sat mesmerized, listening carefully to the entire speech, while others soon returned to their drinks and conversation.
Here is President George W. Bush's five-point plan to Iraqi self-governance. The five points are accompanied by selected comments from the president during his speech Monday:
"I just so strongly oppose what this administration has done to the American people. We had the good will of the world with us on Sept. 11 and the president squandered it," Lutz said. "This administration had no real mandate and they've taken us to the darkest place in our history."
Five steps to DemocracyGreat team effort by the Carlisle staff to advance the president's visit and then to cover it, including sharing stories with other Lee papers on an AM cycle, even though The Sentinel is a PM paper. -- DAVID STOEFFLER
"A United Nations team headed by Carina Perelli is now in Iraq helping form an independent election commission that will oversee an orderly, accurate national election. In that election, the Iraqi people will choose a transitional national assembly, the first freely elected, truly representative national governing body in Iraq's history."
Bush's speech coincided with the unveiling of a new U.N. resolution by the United States and Britain endorsing the June 30 handover of political power in Iraq and authorizing a U.S.-led multinational force to keep the peace.
Ron Murray of Lebanon carried signs that said "Support Our Troops" and "Deport Anti-War Protesters."
Bush outlined five steps that he said would help Iraq achieve democracy and freedom: transferring authority to a sovereign new Iraqi government on June 30, helping establish security in areas still gripped by chaos, urging broader international support, reconstructing the country and setting up national elections.
Richard Burrill, a peace college supporter from Stoverstown in York County, said he wants troops to come home.
Back at the Gingerbread Man, one pair of customers had a complaint about the president's visit. The couple "was annoyed that their last ballroom dancing class at the war college was canceled" because of Bush's visit, Miller said. "But they understood why."
President lays out Iraq plan
Norm and Cathy Walters of Boiling Springs also watched the speech at the VFW. Cathy Walters said Bush's words were "uplifting."
Murray was willing to back up his views. He was one of the two Vietnam veterans involved in the shouting match near the war college entrance.
Many functions of government already have been transferred to the Iraqis, Bush said. Twelve government ministries are under their direct control.
"He is lying. We're in a war and people are being killed."

By 9 p.m. Carlisle already seemed to be on its way back to "normal," without any major traffic jams as Carlisle Barracks emptied.
Hundreds in the audience
Instead, the United Nations should have been allowed to act, he said. "We didn't find any weapons of mass destruction; we're getting lots killed. We're making lots of terrorists."
Bush spoke to about 450 guests in Thorpe gymnasium. The guest list was determined by the White House, and war college students were given priority, said Carlisle Barracks spokeswoman Lt. Col. Merideth Bucher
Carrying a sign that read "We've Lost the Moral High Ground," Harrisburg resident Karen Lutz attended with her golden retriever.
He vowed to destroy Abu Ghraib and build a new prison if Iraqi authorities give their consent.
And "if they need more troops, I will send them," Bush said sternly. "We will do all that is necessary by measured force or by overwhelming force to ensure a stable Iraq."
Although U.S. forces will remain a military force in Iraq following the June 30 transfer, Bush repeatedly shot down any notion he plans on a long "occupation" in the war-torn country. A recent poll said 82 percent of Iraqis want U.S. troops to leave.
John D. Stouffer of Enola said Bush's emphasis on homeland security impresses him.
Poll numbers down
The speech comes at a pivotal time for Bush's drive for re-election as well as for Iraq's future. Five months before election day, his approval ratings have bottomed out, dragged down by the turmoil in Iraq.
Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa.; U.S. Rep. Todd Platts, R-19; Carlisle Mayor Kirk Wilson, and Dickinson College President William Durden headed a short list of invited guests.
The trip marked Bush's 28th visit to Pennsylvania since taking office and his third to the midstate this year. Bush lost Pennsylvania in 2000 and the state is expected to be a key battleground as he seeks re-election this year.
Her husband added, "With self-rule, (Iraqis) are going to have to start standing on their own legs. That's a nice bit of information for our troops, so they'll know they can get on with their lives soon."
The five-point plan
By TIFFANY PAKKALA/The Sentinel
"It was very important for the president to lay out for the American people what our direct strategy is in Iraq," the congressman said. "Success in Iraq is a critical aspect of the global war on terrorism."
Local law enforcement officers were stationed on all the roads around Carlisle Barracks.
Perry teens protest
Victoria Sams and Susan Rose were part of a group from Dickinson College in Carlisle protesting against Bush and the war.
Working with the United Nations in naming interim government leaders.
Dispatchers for Carlisle police and Cumberland County communications center reported their evenings had been very quiet.
"I sent American troops to Iraq to defend our security, not to stay as an occupying power," he said. "I sent American troops to Iraq to make its people free, not to make them American. Iraqis will write their own history and find their own way."
Broadening international support, primarily through a U.N. resolution that will detail the June 30 handover of power to a new Iraqi government and outline how much say Iraqis will have over armed forces in their country.
About 15 to 20 Bush supporters showed up with signs sporting slogans such as "PA is Bush Country."
They support president
Stories
"I'm very happy to see so many people on such short notice," said their mother, Alaina Van Doren.
The Associated Press contributed to this story.
President praised
Signs evident
"We don't want Bush to be in office anymore," said Alea Drain, 17. "A vote for Nader is a vote for Bush."
"We're in protest to the president of the United States to come here to push his war," he said. "There's no way he can rebuild our reputation around the world."
Sitting nearby, Augie Dietz of Carlisle pointed to Bush's image and said, "As long as that man's in office, I can go home and sleep at night and have no worries."
National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice and White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card watched the Bush address from a darkened corner along a running track high atop the gym.
By 8 p.m. at Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 477, a television's volume was turned all the way up as the president's speech began.
"I think he's trying to tell everybody that he's keeping a focus ... that he does have a program," said David Martin of Boiling Springs, who served in Korea in the 1960s.
Carlisle tunes in to president
With the U.S. death toll at about 800 soldiers, Bush warned that the violence and chaos will not end soon. He made no promises to bring troops home, saying the United States would keep its troop level at the current 138,000 "as long as necessary."
"The liberals need to come together for one (candidate)," said Tim Harper, 18, a senior at Newport High School. "Anyone would be better than what we have now. All the mistakes he's made -- when I'm 30 or 40, I'm going to be paying for it."
Members of the "Carlisle Peace College," a group that mounts monthly protests at the war college, planned the 7 p.m. protest. Leader Ben Price said people began arriving shortly after 5 for Monday's protest.
"I preach and teach peacemaking," she said. "I'm just here to voice my opinion that war is not the answer."
Platts, a staunch supporter of the war in Iraq, said he was pleased with Bush's remarks.
"I want to keep this country safe and free for my grandbabies and my children," Murray said. "I care that this country stays as safe as it was when I was growing up."
Bush noted the abuse of Iraqi prisoners by U.S. soldiers at Abu Ghraib, saying the prison that was a symbol of death and torture under Saddam Hussein "became a symbol of disgraceful conduct by a few American troops who dishonored our country and disregarded our values."
Another customer told him "every deputy sheriff in Cumberland and Dauphin counties (had) to be within a mile" of the military post.
The new government - to be advised by a national council that will be chosen in July by Iraqis - will exercise full sovereignty until national elections are held in January, Bush said. In what is being billed as the first true election in the history of the country, Iraqis will choose a transitional national assembly.
She said protesters must get organized in November and bring other people with them to the polls to defeat Bush.
U.N. envoy Lakhdar Brahimi is expected to put forward the names of the interim government this week. In addition to a president, two vice presidents and a prime minister, 26 Iraqi ministers will oversee government departments ranging from health to justice to defense.
The helicopters carried President George W. Bush, some of his staff, Secret Service agents and the White House press corps to Army War College at Carlisle Barracks.
Pedestrians walked with upturned faces and drivers poked their heads out their windows as five massive helicopters descended just after 7 p.m. Monday.
Carlisle police were stationed at the post's front entrance on Route 11 while Cumberland county's special response team was stationed on site at the barracks.
The president flew into the post by helicopter and would not have had an opportunity to see the signs, but that didn't dampen the demonstrators' enthusiasm.
Seven Perry County teens, all students or graduates of Newport High School, called for the president's ouster at the polls.
Big night for cops
After the president stressed that America's efforts in Iraq will continue, Dietz said: "He's not going to give in. He's going to fight to the end. I think that's the way it should be."
"We heard that Bush was coming here" and wanted to lend support to the protest effort, said Sams, a college employee. She called Bush's presidency "one of the most destructive administrations in my life."
One of the signs the teens carried said "Register Green, Vote Democratic."