

Copyright 2002, Common Cause
Signup for CauseWire, Common Cause's electronic news service 
        for journalists who cover politics, campaigns, and government: Subscribe.
“Leadership through retaliation is no way for the House to do business,” Simon said. “Such tactics will only make the American people even more distrustful and cynical of Congress.”
Press Releases:
http://commoncause.org/publications/current_releases.htm
Common Cause protests the actions taken last week by the Republican House leadership that, according to recent published reports, punished fellow GOP Members who supported the Shays-Meehan campaign finance reform legislation last year.
“It is flatly wrong to punish Members because they support reform, and have the courage to fight for their convictions,” said Don Simon, acting president of Common Cause, which spearheaded efforts to pass the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act (BCRA). “Americans elect their representatives to vote their conscience and do what’s right  – not what’s politically expedient for party leaders.”
Contact:
Mary Boyle
202.736.5770
January 16, 2003
Others were apparently punished as well.  According to published reports, three GOP members who signed a discharge petition that forced BCRA to a vote on the House floor over the objection of the leadership were reportedly passed over for more prominent committee assignments they sought.  Rep. Robert Simmons (R-CT) did not get a seat on the Appropriations Committee, Rep. Todd Platts (R-PA) was passed over for the Armed Services Committee and Charles Bass (R-N.H.) was denied a spot on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
Not a journalist? Looking to connect with Common Cause for information 
        on grassroots activity? Join CauseNET, our online grassroots advocacy 
        network: Subscribe.
The most blatant example of this punishment is the case of Rep. Chris Shays (R-CT), who co-sponsored the campaign finance reform legislation in the House. Shays, an eight-term congressman, was in line to become the next chairman of the House Government Reform Committee. But the House leadership instead chose Rep. Tom Davis (R-VA), a five-term Member -- and a key party fund-raiser.
Useful links: