
Mr. Platts nonetheless pushed on with his efforts to discredit the choice bill. Later, one of his Republican colleagues complained about Mr. Platts: "The teacher unions have apparently found their spokesman to attack the bill, and they think their arguments will have more impact if they come from a Republican." We'll see if Mr. Platts repeats his performance when the choice bill reaches the House floor later this month (it is scheduled for a final committee vote Thursday).

WASHINGTON--Dozens of anxious Washington, D.C., parents crowded into a congressional hearing room late last month to express support for a school-choice bill that would let their kids escape the deplorable schools of the nation's capital. Choice supporters may finally get a highly visible demonstration project in a city with perhaps the nation's highest concentration of political and media elites.
The parents attending the picnic form an impressive lobbying force that has been missing in previous choice battles in the district. One commented that the elected officials in Washington who oppose choice have exercised it for their own kids. Only one of Washington's City Council members, Republican Carol Schwartz, is known to have sent her children to the local public schools.
School choice has long been touted as a means to prod the District of Columbia's schools to improve, but teachers unions have always blocked Congress--which has ultimate authority over the district's government--from making choice a reality. This time things look to be different. Both Mayor Anthony Williams and School Board president Peggy Cooper Cafritz have now endorsed vouchers targeted at low-income district students. "Parents ought not be compelled to choose a public school, a charter school or a private school solely by default," the mayor told last month's congressional hearing. He sadly acknowledged that more than 70% of the district's fourth-graders score below basic proficiency in reading, and only 53% of high school sophomores score at or above basic reading levels.
Opposition to school choice has been generally successful in limiting  choice experiments to a handful of places such as Florida, Milwaukee and Cleveland. But last year's Supreme Court decision upholding the constitutionality of Cleveland's voucher program has spurred renewed efforts to pass choice legislation in the states. Now Congress is poised to take up the subject despite filibuster threats by some Democratic senators.

To explain his support for choice, Mayor Williams pointed to a raft of studies that show the positive impact of such  programs. He noted that a recent study found that district students who currently attend private schools with help from the nonprofit Washington Scholarship Fund gained almost 10 percentile points in math and reading achievement after the first year.
Just when choice supporters began to wonder if the fire had gone out of the other side, Rep. Todd Platts, a Pennsylvania Republican, began peppering Mayor Williams with questions. Mr. Platts noted proudly that he had always opposed school choice during his 11-year record in public office because he believed "that if there are problems in the public schools we should solve them for all students and not just some." That may be fine for some folks, Mayor Williams responded evenly, but the district schools are in crisis. He likened it to an emergency room: "If I'm a doctor, am I supposed to say to victims who walk through the door that I won't treat you unless I can treat everyone? I think not. I think we have to help those we can. I also think the others can be helped if the public schools are spurred to action."
Rhoi Wangila, who immigrated from Uganda a decade ago, said that when she came to this country she quickly realized that without a good education her child might be little better off than in her native land. "The choice scholarship made all the difference for my kid, and I hope my good fortune can be shared by others," echoed Tanza Coullette, who daily scrimps to save the tuition money her private scholarship does not cover.
Should choice gain a foothold in the nation's capital, its prospects for spreading nationally would brighten. Any success it had here would happen under the noses of much of the nation's political and media elites and undermine the moral standing of choice opponents. That is why this summer's battle for choice in Washington will have implications far beyond the Beltway.