
“The technology is readily available to enable a revolution in managing the government’s business,” Morea said. “But success also depends on transforming the underlying business processes and aligning operations across the agency.”
AMS offers its Momentum® business management solution as a commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) product suite expressly calibrated to support federal operations. Momentum supports the entire procure-to-pay life cycle and the complete federal budget cycle.
WASHINGTON, October 29, 2003—Federal agencies need to think big if they are to fully reform their financial management operations, Donna Morea, executive vice president and general manager of American Management Systems, Incorporated’s (NASDAQ: AMSY) public sector practice told a congressional panel today.
AMS has been on the front lines of efforts to improve financial management in the federal government for more than two decades. It has provided business management software as well as IT and business consulting services to over 60 federal agencies.
Morea’s comments were delivered in testimony before the U.S. House of Representative’s Committee on Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Efficiency and Financial Management, chaired by Rep. Todd Platts, (R-PA). The oversight hearing was scheduled to examine why many government agencies are not in substantial compliance with the Federal Financial Management Improvement Act of 1996 (FFMIA).
Morea has led AMS’s work with federal, state and local government agencies since March 2002. Morea joined AMS in 1980 and has more than 23 years of experience building leading IT consulting practices that focus on strategic, enterprise-wide solutions for public sector customers.
Government agencies have had some success reforming under FFMIA, stated Morea, because the law helped standardize financial management across agencies. As a result, they have been better able to implement commercially available solutions.
Morea’s testimony can be found at http://www.ams.com/testimony.
The federal government’s Joint Financial Management Improvement Program (JFMIP) certified Momentum 5.0 for use by federal agencies in June 2003, making it one of only four COTS packages that are compliant with the newest government standards. JFMIP is a joint and cooperative undertaking of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the General Accounting Office, the Office of Management and Budget, and the Office of Personnel Management that works in cooperation and with other federal agencies to improve financial management practices in government.
Specifically, Morea urged the U.S. Congress to devote greater resources to reforming agencies’ business processes, rather than funding new computer systems alone. She also asserted that agencies should better integrate new financial systems with other agency operations.
Drawing on decades of experience supporting government agencies and companies in the private sector, she added: “Agencies must take into account the big picture, which means developing a vision, a team, and a procurement process that approaches the modernization of a financial system holistically.”
“Neither clean audits nor the latest technology can ensure that agencies realize the goal of the Federal Financial Management Improvement Act: to provide timely, accurate information that can be used to facilitate better decision-making,” Morea said. “The real opportunity for improvement here is empowering agency leadership to align operation and process to business goals.”