
A budget resolution that includes $350 in tax relief; non-defense
		  discretionary spending levels between the President's budget and the Senate
		  resolution; and sustainable mandatory spending levels can win bipartisan
		  support and will set the stage for smoother approval of the reconciliation and
		  appropriations legislation necessary to enact the proposed policy in the budget
		  resolution.
April 8, 2003
Washington, D.C. - The Republican Main Street Partnership
		  stands firmly behind an effort by 15 House GOP moderates to salvage the
		  House-Senate Budget Resolution by proposing that both chambers include a $350
		  billion tax cut in the fiscal year 2004 budget blueprint.
HOUSE GOP MAIN STREET MODERATES URGE BUDGET COMPROMISE
"While some of us would support more than $350 billion in tax relief
		  and others would prefer less, or no tax cut at all, it is clear that a budget
		  resolution containing more than $350 billion cannot pass Congress," the letter
		  states. A copy of the letter is below.
REPUBLICAN LEADERS TRY SLIGHT OF HAND TO GET
			 BUDGET RESOLUTION
April 8, 2003
Contact
	    Ron Talley 
Email Ron
		  Talley 
	    888-260-1371 
	    202-682-3143
	    703-622-6722 (Cell)
Working to Prevent Another Budget Stalemate, Moderates Back $350
		  Billion Tax Cut
We believe that a credible compromise to achieve this shared goal is
		  for the final budget resolution to include $350 billion for tax measures to
		  stimulate and strengthen the economy. While some of us would support more than
		  $350 billion in tax relief and others would prefer less, or no tax cut at all,
		  it is clear that a budget resolution containing more than $350 billion cannot
		  pass Congress. Approving a budget resolution with $350 billion for tax cuts
		  would allow for virtually all of the 2001 tax relief to be accelerated to
		  benefit all Americans. It would also allow for some additional steps to help
		  American businesses, especially small businesses. If additional tax relief is
		  sought, it may be possible to increase the amount of immediate tax relief
		  available by offsetting the cost by closing tax loopholes.
It is crucial that the House and Senate pass a final concurrent
		  budget resolution for fiscal year 2004 to enable Congress to move forward on
		  the critical appropriations legislation to fund key programs and to pass
		  reconciliation legislation to strengthen our economy.
The letter reads as follows:
Mr. Speaker and Majority Leader Frist, recognize that many in our
		  party prefer a larger tax cut, but $350 billion in tax relief is by any means
		  significant. Indeed, it would represent one of the largest tax cuts in history.
		  Yet, it is more manageable given the need to win the conflict in Iraq, continue
		  the war on terror, fund key programs, and work to reduce the deficit. For these
		  reasons, and in an effort to find a solution that will benefit the American
		  people, we urge you to work to resolve the negotiations on the budget
		  resolution within this framework.
Fair Taxes For All is bringing the following story to your attention
		  by way of Joel Packer of NEA. Please see below:
A group of key centrist Republican lawmakers delivered a letter to
		  Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-IL) and Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN)
		  Tuesday evening backing a $350 billion tax cut in the conference report as well
		  as realistic and fair levels for discretionary programs like education and
		  mandatory programs including Medicaid.
"Failing to pass a budget resolution would wreak havoc on the
		  upcoming appropriations process," said Main Street Executive Director Sarah
		  Chamberlain Resnick. "It is more important to govern than to play politics.
		  We are as anxious as GOP leaders in both chambers to pass a budget, including
		  a tax cut, by the end of the week so that we can avoid the chaos of last
		  year."
Dear Speaker Hastert and Majority Leader Frist:
The Honorable Bill Frist Majority Leader U.S. Senate Washington, D.C.
		  20510
The Honorable Dennis Hastert Speaker U.S. House of Representatives
		  Washington, D.C. 20515
Sincerely, Rep. Mike Castle (R-DE) Rep. Amo Houghton (R-NY) Rep. Fred
		  Upton (R-MI) Rep. Tom Davis (R-VA) Rep. Nancy Johnson (R-CT) Rep. Rob Simmons
		  (R-CT) Rep. Ray LaHood (R-IL) Rep. Jack Quinn (R-NY) Rep. Todd Platts (R-PA)
		  Rep. Jim Leach (R-IA) Rep. Vern Ehlers (R-MI) Rep. Wayne Gilchrest (R-MD) Rep.
		  Mary Bono (R-CA) Rep. Steve LaTourette (R-OH) Rep. Ed Whitfield (R-KY)
Main Street members of Congress have been actively working
		  behind-the-scenes for weeks to forge a compromise based on the premise that
		  believes a tax cut in the $350 billion range would provide enough stimulus to
		  aid the ailing economy, leave enough room to adequately fund the war on terror
		  and our critical domestic priorities without dramatically worsening future
		  deficits.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE