

About 8,000 Bush supporters flocked to the center to see Bush on the last stop of his day-long swing through Pennsylvania, considered by many to be a key state for Bush to win.
Santorum told the crowd that the country is lucky to have Bush as president.
Bush also said homeownership rates, business investment, consumer confidence and personal incomes have risen on his watch. He called for the U.S. Congress to make his tax cuts permanent because "higher taxes right now would undermine growth and destroy jobs."
"There are quiet times in the life of a nation, when little is expected of leaders, but this is not one of those times," he said. "You and I are living in a period when the stakes are high and the challenges are difficult -- a time when resolve is needed."
"He had very good moral clarity, which I really appreciate," said Robert Teague of Spring Garden Township. "I think he's a man of his word."
"It seems like the Republican Party does not have accessibility" for the disabled, said a disappointed Moore. "They told us there would be an interpreter, which there wasn't."

O'Shell said the president's focus on the military, the Iraq war and the economy would go over well with conservative York countians.
Bush referred to his Democratic opponent for president, Massachusetts Sen. John Kerry, as a liberal waffler.
Bush portrayed himself as a strong leader in a difficult time.
One member of the crowd approached for comment could not say what she thought of Bush's speech -- she could not hear it.
After the speech, members of the crowd praised Bush for similar reasons, saying they liked that the president was straightforward and decisive.
"If he wins Pennsylvania, he's going to continue to be the president of the United States for the next four years," Novak said, asking the crowd to "think where we'd be if the other guy, the wrong guy, had won the election."
Bush also referenced Kerry's newly minted running mate, North Carolina Sen. John Edwards.
Amid growing criticism from many corners of the Bush administration's rationale for going to war in Iraq, the president said that although no weapons of mass destruction have surfaced in Iraq, the war has made the country safer.
"My opponent is an experienced senator," he said. "He's been in Washington long enough to take both sides on just about every issue."
Later in his speech, the president heralded what he said was a new age of responsibility.
"I love football players who don't flinch and I love presidents who don't flinch," Paterno said to wild cheers and applause.
"The culture of America is changing from one that said, 'If it feels good, do it, and if you've got a problem, blame somebody else,' to a culture in which each of us understands we are responsible for the decisions we make in life," he said.
"Senator Kerry is rated as the most liberal member of the Senate, and he chose a fellow lawyer who is the fourth most liberal member of the Senate," he said. "Back in Massachusetts, that's what they call balancing the ticket."
"We are privileged to have a man in the Oval Office who has the Churchillian courage to stand up and say, 'We know who we are and we know the face of evil,'" Santorum said.
Before Bush's arrival, the country group The Oak Ridge Boys sang, and U.S. Rep. Todd Platts, R-York County, Republican Sen. Rick Santorum and state Republican Party Chairman Alan Novak spoke.
"We removed a declared enemy of America, who had the capability of producing weapons of mass destruction and could have passed that capability to terrorists bent on acquiring them," he said. "In the world after September 11th, that was a risk we could not afford to take."
--Reach Caryn Tamber at ctamber@yorkdispatch.com.
Bush was greeted enthusiastically by those inside the Toyota Arena, who waved signs, cheered and frequently yelled, "We love you, George" and "God bless you!"
Those who spoke before the president arrived mentioned the importance of Pennsylvania in the upcoming election and urged the party faithful to help turn out the vote here.
He then talked about capturing or killing "terrorists and foreign fighters" in Iraq and Afghanistan, which prompted members of the crowd to shout, "Give 'em hell, George," and "Kill 'em!" When Bush alluded to the recent beheadings of Americans Nick Berg and Paul Johnson by Islamic militants, some shouted "barbarians" and "animals."
(Click here to see photos of the event, or click on "Images of York County" button on the left of this page)
"This just bodes well for the president here in the fall in York County," he said after the speech.
Yvonne Moore of Lancaster, who is deaf, said she and her husband thought there were be a sign language interpreter doing a simultaneous translation of the speech.
York County Clerk of the Courts Don O'Shell said he saw Bush's enthusiastic reception as a good omen for November.
Bush was introduced by local icon Joe Paterno, coach of the Penn State football team.