
At least three representatives -- Reps. John Shimkus (R-IL), 
                Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY) and Todd Platts (R-PA) - agreed during 
                Lobby Day to cosponsor the House committee bill. Bread for the 
                World also received numerous follow-up calls from congressional 
                staff.
As we went to press, the House and Senate foreign operations 
                subcommittees were scheduled to consider and pass their 2004 appropriations 
                bill in mid-July. The full Appropriations committees are expected 
                to act on the bills later in the month. For updates, please check 
                Bread for the World's Web site at www.bread.org.
Thanks to the hard work of Bread for the World members, Congress 
                is moving forward on the Millennium Challenge Account (MCA) initiative. 
                Both the House International Relations Committee and the Senate 
                Foreign Relations Committee have recently passed bills (H.R. 2441 
                and S. 1160, respectively) to establish the MCA. Each incorporates 
                many of the key features of our Rise to the Challenge campaign, 
                including focusing on low-income countries, emphasizing the Millennium 
                Development Goals and using funds to eliminate extreme poverty.
Much vital work remains to be done on the Rise to the Challenge 
                campaign. Now that the committees have finished their work on 
                the MCA, the bills have to be passed by the full House and Senate. 
                Congress also has to approve the necessary funding to implement 
                the good policies in the MCA bills.

Bread for the World supports the president's request of $1.3 
                billion for 2004. Securing this amount could prove difficult, 
                however, given the tight federal budget. The House has allocated 
                only $17.1 billion to fund existing development and humanitarian 
                assistance programs, the new HIV/AIDS initiative and the MCA. 
                This is $1.7 billion less than the administration's request -- 
                not nearly enough to cover all of these crucial programs. The 
                Senate allotted $800 million less than requested.

In addition to Offerings of Letters and recent call-in days, 
                Bread for the World members from 44 states attended Lobby Day 
                on June 24. During a meeting with one group, Sen. Debbie Stabenow 
                (D-MI) shared several letters from constituents about the MCA. 
                One letter was actually from the father of a Lobby Day participant 
                in that meeting. Sen. Stabenow urged Bread for the World members 
                to generate more letters to members of Congress and to encourage 
                more coverage of the MCA in their local media.
All members of Congress need to hear from constituents that the 
                MCA should be fully funded without taking money from existing 
                poverty-focused development assistance or the HIV/AIDS initiative, 
                as both President Bush and the draft MCA legislation have pledged. 
                It's time for Congress to honor this commitment.
Thank you to all our members who worked to make the committee 
                bills so strong for hungry and poor people!