
Scientists, state and federal agencies and citizen advocates know 
          what must be done to restore the Bay’s health. The 300 major waste 
          treatment plants in the watershed must be upgraded to reduce the nutrients 
          coming into the Bay. Farmers must be given the best technology and resources 
          to keep excess fertilizer and sediments out of the Bay. And new financing 
          mechanisms must be developed to help local governments control stormwater 
          runoff. But these things are costly. Earlier this year, a Chesapeake 
          Bay Commission report entitled The Cost of a Clean Bay, found a $9.4 
          billion gap in the resources needed to reduce nutrients and sediments 
          in the Bay to levels sufficient to remove the estuary from the Environmental 
          Protection Agency’s list of impaired waters. Federal assistance 
          is essential to help close this gap and clean up the Bay. We therefore 
          urge you to commit $1 billion towards restoring the Bay’s water 
          quality. With a matching State funding requirement and proper targeting, 
          these funds would provide a tremendous boost to the efforts to reduce 
          nutrient pollution in Chesapeake Bay. This investment would pay big 
          dividends in restoring the ecological and economic health of our nation’s 
          greatest estuary.
Dear Mr. President:
A full text of the letter follows:
FEDERAL LEGISLATORS URGE $1 BILLION COMMITMENT
FROM BUSH ADMINISTRATION TO HELP RESTORE
CHESAPEAKE BAY WATERSHED
November 3, 2003
###
Contact: 
          Jesse Jacobs                                                                    For 
          Immediate Release (202) 224-4524                                          
                                              
          November 7, 2003              
          http://sarbanes.senate.gov
Signing the letter to the President, in addition to Sarbanes, were: 
          Senators John Warner (R-VA), Arlen Specter (R-PA), Barbara A. Mikulski 
          (D-MD), Rick Santorum (R-PA), and George Allen (R-VA). House members 
          signing the letter were: Wayne Gilchrest (MD-1), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger 
          (MD-2), Ben Cardin (MD-3), Albert Wynn (MD-4), Steny Hoyer (MD-5), Roscoe 
          Bartlett (MD-6), Elijah Cummings (MD-7), Chris Van Hollen (MD-8), Joe 
          Pitts (PA-16), Tim Holden (PA-17), Todd Platts (PA-19), Jo Ann Davis 
          (VA-1), Ed Schrock (VA-2), Bobby Scott (VA-3), Randy Forbes (VA-4), 
          and Frank Wolf (VA-10).
Now, more than ever, Chesapeake Bay, one of this country’s greatest 
          natural resources, needs Federal help and executive leadership. This 
          summer the Chesapeake Bay’s so-called “dead zone” 
          – the area of oxygen- and life- depleted waters – extended 
          more than 100 miles down the Bay, the largest area ever recorded. Scientists 
          observed extensive algal blooms and watermen reported pulling up nets 
          of dead fish and crab “jubilees” – a rare phenomenon 
          of crabs fleeing the water for air. Despite 20 years of efforts to clean 
          up the Bay, this record-level “dead zone” dramatically underscores 
          that nutrient pollution – the principal cause of the Bay’s 
          poor water quality – continues largely unabated.
Even as Congress works 
          towards completion of its fiscal year 2004 appropriations bills, a bi-partisan 
          group of 22 members of the United States Senate and House of Representatives, 
          who represent the major portions of the Chesapeake Bay watershed, have 
          written to President Bush urging him to make the restoration of the 
          Chesapeake Bay a “top environmental priority” in his 2005 
          budget.

We appreciate your 
          attention to this matter and look forward to hearing from you.
The President
          The White House
          Washington, D.C. 20500
As you prepare to submit your Fiscal 2005 budget request to the Congress, 
          we urge you to make the restoration of Chesapeake Bay a top environmental 
          priority.
The time to act is now to reaffirm the Federal commitment to a restored 
          Chesapeake Bay. Delay of even a year can mean a bigger dead zone, more 
          dead fish and crabs, and fewer jobs. Without help, the Bay faces a measurable 
          deterioration of ecological conditions, decreasing economic value, and 
          increasing restoration costs.
The letter, spearheaded by Senator Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD), calls 
          on the Bush Administration to commit $1 billion in its fiscal year 2005 
          budget towards restoring the Bay’s water quality. “This 
          investment would pay big dividends in restoring the ecological and economic 
          health of our nation’s greatest estuary,” the legislators 
          wrote.