
Washington, D.C.—U.S. Representative Tom Allen announced today that he will cosponsor H.R. 3281, the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act, bipartisan legislation to strengthen the protections afforded federal employees who report illegalities, gross mismanagement and waste, and substantial and specific dangers to the public health and safety.
In 1994, Congress amended the Whistleblowers Protection Act (WPA) expressly to clarify its intent that the law protect “any” disclosure of waste, fraud, and abuse.  However, in a series of cases, the District of Columbia Federal Circuit Court—which has sole authority to review cases under the WPA—has substantially limited the protections afforded whistleblowers.  The Court has ruled that the WPA does not apply when an employee directs criticism to other witnesses or supervisors in an attempt to start the process of challenging misconduct; if the information disclosed was done so in the course of his or her ordinary job duties; or if the information “disclosed” has already been raised by someone else.
“A series of recent federal court decisions have seriously eroded the protections Congress intended for federal whistleblowers under amendments passed a decade ago,” Representative Allen said.  “As a result, employees who are dedicated to responsible government are wrongly subject to bureaucratic harassment, career damage, and economic loss.  Our legislation corrects this problem and assures that federal whistleblowers are guaranteed the same protections afforded to corporate whistleblowers in the private sector.”
Legislation protects federal employees like Medicare actuary Richard Foster who was threatened with firing if he provided Congress accurate cost estimates for the new Medicare law
“Over the past few months, there have been several high profile cases in which federal employees were fired or threatened with termination for communicating with Congress” Representative Allen said.  “The most notable example is Richard Foster, the Medicare actuary, who was threatened with firing if he communicated to Congress his projections that the new Medicare Prescription, Improvement and Modernization law will exceed the Administration’s estimated $400 billion, ten-year cost by upwards of $150 billion.  Such cases highlight the importance of H.R. 3281.  Congress cannot make informed decisions if it does not have access to necessary information.  The Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act empowers federal employees to report fraud and abuse, holding our government accountable without fear of unnecessary retaliation.”
contact: Mark Sullivan, (207)774-5019
Representative Todd Platts (R-PA) introduced H.R. 3281.  Senators Daniel Akaka (D-HI) and Charles Grassley (R-IA) have introduced S. 1358, companion legislation in the Senate.