
« Back to Op-Eds
Since his election as Texas Governor, President Bush has been relentless in his effort to bring new faces to the GOP. With that in mind, his decision to sign campaign finance reform seems more consistent with his philosophy rather than a departure from it. Ten years from now, when the GOP is on its way to challenging Democrats in districts once thought impossible, we can thank the leaders who pushed campaign finance reform, and the President who this week signed it into law.
The Republican Party will be the ultimate winner now that President Bush has signed campaign finance reform into law, legislation that many Republicans originally had trouble supporting.
Yet campaign finance reform means more than severing the soft money ties between lobbyists and elected officials. It means a return to a time when the concerns of voters mattered most, rather than how much money could be thrown into a race. It will force Republicans and Democrats alike to favor town hall meetings to those with K Street lobbyists, to reach out to new voters, and to reengage in a battle of ideas rather than a tried battle of campaign budgets.
Republican ideas, especially if they are to take hold in America's cities, need campaign finance reform. Consider school vouchers. A majority of those living in America's cities support them, while a majority of their elected officials do not. Tax cuts are another example. BusinessWeek reported that of Americans earning $25,000 or less, two-thirds said a tax cut was "very important," while only half of those earning over $75,000 claimed the same . Republican policies can win elections in Democratic strongholds when voters are exposed to them. Campaign finance reform will help make that happen.
This op-ed also appeared in The Empire Page online at http://www.empirepage.com.
Unconventional Wisdom: How Voters and the GOP Winwith Campaign Finance Reform
By Jonathan Sims | In Government Accountability
March 27, 2002
To see the positive effects of camping finance reform, Republican lawmakers can look to one of their own - Pennsylvania Congressman Todd Platts. During his campaign, Mr. Platts never accepted PAC donations. His self-imposed campaign finance reform meant that he had to enlist the help of family members and friends to raise funds through grassroots efforts - including submarine sandwich sales. Rather than ask for money, he went door to door and asked for votes. Despite being outspent by his primary opponents, Mr. Platts went on to win. Not only did he win the election, he won the hearts of his constituents, as fifteen busloads of them (many think a record) followed him to Washington to see his inauguration. Campaign finance reform will provide the Platts model the legal push it needs.
Much has been said of how the shift to hard-money fundraising and the doubling of individual limits will benefit the GOP and may end up hurting the Democrats. True, the Republican Party has done a good job of building lists of individual donors while the Democrats were the party that disproportionately benefited from soft money. Last year, sixty-one percent of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee's income was from soft money, compared to just forty-five percent for their Republican counterparts. While the supporters of campaign finance reform were correct in asserting that forty-five percent is still far too high, it will be the Democrats who have to change their ways the most.