
Difficult to select a girl of the match with a good performance from Lauren at full back
            but my vote goes to India Koller who was strong and determined on the left side.
Under 14 Team Match Reports
            By Steve Ogle
The best goal of the game then came which was started by Charlotte at the back playing
            it to Lauren at fullback who passed inside to Oggy who popped it to Formo, on again to the overlapping
            Lauren who crossed for Katy Moran to head in at the front post - we want more of this play this week a great
            goal!!!! Formo added another close range effort and Mozza was involved in the sixth, chesting down for
            strike partner Kippa Murphy to score with her left foot.
Lauren bagged one with a low drive after great midfield play from Oggy - 14 - 0. Gibbo
            added her second as Stratford tired even further despite great saves from the keeper who was having a
            stormer!!! Katie Smith got her hat-trick with a great strike from 18 yards not bad for a centre half, Adele
            Rogers was out of goal replaced by her understudy Formaston selected for her size!!!!! and promptly gt on
            the score sheet with her first goal for the club.
A draw was a fair result in the end but improvements will need to be made!!!
This was the first fixture of the season and the side were brimming with confidence
            following two great performances against U16 sides in pre season friendlies. Derby looked a very organised
            side from the kick off and Coventry struggled throughout with marking and organisation which allowed Derby
            to get an early goal. The management team and parents were shocked at the below par start and changes were
            made both through injury and tactically.
Coventry City Ladies 1 - 1 Derby County
            League 4/9/04
The second half followed a similar pattern with both teams cancelling each other out
            with Stacey Doughty commanding at the back and Adele Rogers supporting the side with a great display between
            the sticks. Jade Ogle was pushed into the middle during the second half and played extremely well.
Changes were needed at half time to provide the squad with as much gameplay as possible,
            the second half started the same ay as the first and Stratford were tiring following their hard work and
            effort to keep the score down. India got her hat-trick from 18 yards - superb finish from the rebound. Jay
            Bradford finally got on the Coventry scoresheet with a tap in after a parried save. Katie Smith got her
            first in her temporary role of centre forward, her strike partner Abbey Gibson netted the 12th from 6 yards
            and Katie Smith got her second from good work and an inch perfect pass from Paige Newell.
Coventry City Ladies 19 - 0 Stratford Town Ladies
            Open Cup 18/9/04
Stratford visited Coventry with it all to do and from the start Coventry showed their
            class against a team that tried very hard to match us. Early on Jade Formaston slotted home from a rebound,
            straight afterwards India Koller drove powerfully into the net from the angle of the box, the first of three
            and a good performance after injury. Coventry were dominating play and from a corner the ball bounced out to
            Charlotte Gassor who had a low drive which ended in the onion bag from 10 yards - 3 - 0.
Jay Bradford sealed the result with two goals at the end, the first after good work from
            Gibbo and Paige and the second a curling effort to the far corner from the cross from Lauren.
Girl of the Match - India Koller
Girl of the Match - Stacey Doughty (folowed closely by Adele Rogers)
The first goal from Katie "Mozza" Moran was finished well following her desire
            to win and hassle the defenders without the effect of bananas. We got a quick second from a well worked
            (scuffed corner) to the near post which was put away with aplomb by Jade Formaston - the management were
            happy. A third quickly followed again from Mozza who beat the advancing keeper slotting the ball into the
            far corner. Coventry continued to dominate with strong performance from Charlotte Gassor and Jay Bradford -
            both playing out of position but doing a grand job both in defence and attack.
Aston Villa 1 - 3 Coventry City Ladies
            League 11/9/04
Girl of the Match - Jay Bradford
Stratford were finding it difficult to get out of their half and their goalkeeper was in
            great form, Mozza placed the ball into the corner after a one on one with the keeper and India made it 8 at
            half-time with another strike from 8 yards.
Following a nervy start against Derby last weekend the team was changed following the
            work done on Wednesday at training. The first few minutes showed that the side were more organised and
            immediately got into a pattern of play restricting Villa all over the pitch. The back four commanded by
            Stacey Doughty were in control allowing the midfield to create the openings for Moran and Murphy M&M not
            S.A.S!!!
The second half saw some changes in personnel and the strength of the wind which put
            Coventry under slightly more pressure with Villa getting stronger and eventually the goal came. This was the
            only goal conceded due to strong defending and good organisation from Adele Rogers, Stacey Doughty and Katie
            Smith. The whole squad deserved the victory as all played well and showed that we can play football and
            battle with the best!!
Coventry battled hard and got back into the game with a gaol from Katie Moran who
            "had scared the Derby defence from the start with her agression and strength"s.