
Edward Fox was the eldest 
            son of Edward Fox senior ( born 1788, London - died 1875), an artist 
            and landscape painter, and Sarah Fox, a milliner, (born c.1792 Horsham, 
            Sussex, died before 1871)


Website 
          last updated: 23 December, 2002


Private 
            Life and Public Records 1875-1891

Advertisement for Edward 
                    Fox 's Landscape Photography in Treacher's Guide of 1867
The 
            West Battery, Kings Road. An engraving taken from a drawing by Edward 
            Fox senior (c1830)
Edward Fox senior - Landscape Artist in Brighton

Edward 
            Fox junior: Artist in Photography

Edward 
            Fox's blind stamp identified him as a "Landscape and Architectural 
            Photographer." Several Brighton photographers in the 1860s and 
            1870s took views as well as portraits.W H Mason junior issued 
            his photographs of famous Brighton landmarks, such as the Grand Hotel, 
            in carte de visite format, but he rarely ventured out of town. The 
            Brighton photographer George Cassinello, produced cartes that 
            featured famous Sussex buildings and William Lane of Queens' 
            Road,Brighton photographed a number of views of the Swiss Gardens 
            at Shoreham, but these photographers relied on portraits for the bulk 
            of their business. Charles Nathaniel Wootton, who arrived in 
            Brighton from Cambridge in 1868, advertised 'Landscape & General 
            Photography,' but it is clear from his advertisements that his main 
            concern was the production of carte-de-visite portraits, which sold 
            at "7s 6d per dozen".
Stereocard of Brighton's Royal 
            Pavilion by Edward Fox (c1865)
Edward 
            Fox was affiliated to the Photographic Society of Great Britain and 
            showed his work regularly at the annual exhibitions organised by the 
            Photographic Society. Fox first displayed his landscapes at the Photographic 
            Society's Exhibition on 10th January 1863. He went on to show photographs 
            at most of the Society's exhibitions held in London over the next 
            twenty years. The last Photographic Society show he took part in was 
            the 29th Annual Exhibition held at the Society's gallery in Pall Mall, 
            London in the Autumn of 1884.


North Street at the junction 
            with West Street by Edward Fox (1875).This view and a number of other 
            pictures by Edward Fox formed part of The Photographic Record and 
            Survey of Sussex.The rounded building in the centre was demolished 
            in 1925.
By 
            the 1870s, Edward Fox was well known for his views of Brighton landmarks 
            and notable Sussex buildings. He had produced a series of photographs 
            featuring the interiors and exteriors of Sussex Churches and a number 
            had been issued in the carte-de-visite format. Private commissions 
            had taken him across the county to record grand residences and country 
            houses. Significantly, Edward Fox placed advertisements for his landscape 
            photography in newspapers that were circulated in the outer reaches 
            of the County.
In 
            June 1892, it was reported that Edward Fox had sold his photography 
            studio at 44 Market Street. It had been Edward's home since the mid 
            1840s and he had been producing photographs from this address for 
            over 50 years. By 1895, 44 Market Sreet was occupied by J.Slatter, 
            ironmonger. In Page's Directory for 1895, a Mr Fox - 'artist', is 
            recorded at 15 Havelock Road, Brighton. In Pike's 1896 Directory, 
            Edward Fox of 15, Havelock Road is listed under Photographers in the 
            Trades and Professions section. According to Pike's Directory, Edward 
            Fox continued as a photographer at 15 Havelock Road for a few years, 
            but in the 1899 edition, Fox disappears from the list of photographers 
            working in Brighton. Kelly's Directory of 1899 lists Edward Fox as 
            an artist living at 15 Havelock Road in the general directory, but 
            he is not entered under photographers in the trade section. There 
            is no trace of Edward Fox, or his wife Sarah, in the 1901 Census.
Study of Sea Waves.Attributed 
            to Edward Fox [COURTESY OF STEVEN EVANS]


Edward Fox junior- Landscape and Architectural Photographer 
            (1862-1874)

By 
            styling himself as a "Landscape Photographer," Fox distanced 
            himself from the businessmen who had opened photographic studios to 
            cater for the popular demand for photographic portraits. Edward Fox, 
            it seems, did not views the practice of photography as simply a commercial 
            activity.
Hodson's 
            Black Mill on West Hill Road, Brighton, photographed by Edward Fox 
            on 25 June 1866,the day of the mill's demolition
In 
            the 1860s and early 1870s, the majority of Brighton's photographic 
            studios relied on the production of carte de visite portraits. In 
            contrast, Edward Fox's cartes de visite featured the interiors and 
            exteriors of Sussex Churches and other important local buildings.
Cloud and Sea Study. Attributed 
            to Edward Fox [COURTESY OF STEVEN EVANS]
In 
            the late 1870s, Edward Fox was providing photographic prints of his 
            views measuring up to 16 inches by 18 inches. In an advertisement 
            which appeared in Page's Brighton Directory of 1885, Fox announced 
            that his 'speciality' was "Landscape & Architectural Photographs 
            taken direct on plates up to 16 inches to 18 inches."
Carte de visite views by Edward 
            Fox. [ABOVE] 
            Preston Church near Brighton [BELOW] 
            Hove Church , Sussex (c1870)
Edward 
            Fox junior was almost unique in the Brighton of the 1860s in describing 
            himself as a " Landscape and Architectural Photographer." 
            Nicola Cassinello, who for a short time had a studio at 9 Edward 
            Street, Brighton, produced cartes that mainly featured buildings and 
            views and John Harrington who was based at 27 St James Street, 
            Brighton in 1868, was described as "the eminent Architectural 
            Photographer" and was noted for his photographic views of churches 
            and cathedrals, but their presence in Brighton was brief and never 
            seriously challenged Edward Fox junior's position as the leading landscape 
            and architectural photographer in Brighton in the 1860s and early 
            1870s.


Edward 
            Fox's last years as a Photographer
Around 1845, Edward Fox, 
            senior, with his wife and five sons set up home at 44 Market Street, 
            an attractive house with mathematical tiled front and bow windows, 
            which to this day stands alongside The Pump House tavern. In Leppard's 
            1845 Directory of Brighton, Edward Fox, senior is listed as 'Decorative 
            Painter and Artist' of 44 Market Street. Edward Fox junior must have 
            shown artistic talent, for he was soon assisting his father as a decorative 
            painter. In the 1851 Census, Edward Fox junior's father is described 
            as 'Artist-Landscape Painter', aged 62. Mrs Fox's occupation is give 
            as 'Milliner' and two of her sons are working as artists. Edward Fox 
            junior is listed as a 'Decorative Painter' aged 28 and his 22 year 
            old brother Charles Fox is described as a sculptor. In an 1852 Directory, 
            Edward Fox of 44 Market Street Brighton is listed as a "Transparent 
            Blind Maker."


It 
            appears that no children were born of the union between Edward Fox 
            and his wife Sarah. However, it seems Mr and Mrs Fox became the surrogate 
            parents of three young men. By the time of the 1881 Census, Edward 
            and Sarah Fox's house in Market Street was also the home of three 
            brothers, Charles, Algernon and Herbert Attree. The Attree brothers 
            were the sons of Charles Attree, an auctioneer of Clarence Square, 
            Brighton. Charles Attree, who was the husband of Sarah Fox's sister 
            Jane, had died before the birth of their youngest son Herbert Charles 
            Attree, who was baptised on 18th March 1863. The two older Attree 
            brothers both give their occupation as 'clerk' in the 1881 Census, 
            but the teenage Herbert C. Attree is described as a photographer 
            and was, presumably, acting as an assistant to Edward Fox.
1
Fishing Boats on Brighton Beach 
            by Edward Fox [COURTESY OF STEVEN EVANS]
Market 
            Street from Bartholomews by Edward Fox senior . A drawing signed and 
            dated 1823.The old gabled building on the left marked '1727' was used 
            as a workhouse, but because meetings were held in this building it 
            was known as 'The Old Town Hall'.This old building was demolished 
            soon after Edward Fox senior made this drawing. Edward Fox senior 
            and his family lived at the top end of Market Street.

Edward 
            Fox junior as a Photographer (1851-1861)
Edward 
            Fox may have considered himself an artist in photography, but he was 
            gaining a reputation as a reliable recorder of monuments and buildings. 
            Fox's advertisements in the 1870s offer evidence that his photographs 
            were providing "Views for Architects, Engineers, and Arbitrators." 
            It is therefore not surprising that when photographs were gathered 
            together to form "The Photographic Record and Survey of Sussex", 
            Edward Fox's photographs of Brighton and the surrounding Sussex countryside 
            formed an important part of the collection.

Edward 
            Fox senior, was active as an artist in Brighton before 1815. Brighton 
            Museum & Art Gallery has a watercolour of 'Brighton Beach and 
            Sea Front' by Edward Fox senior, which carries the date 1814. In Baxter's 
            Directory of 1822, Edward Fox is listed as a Drawing Master at 55 
            Ship Street. On 12th May 1822, Edward Fox, artist, married Sarah Caven, 
            spinster. Edward, the couple's first child was born the following 
            year at Edward Fox's house in Ship Street, Brighton. Edward Fox 
            junior was baptised at St Nicholas Church, Brighton on 23rd April 
            1823. A second son, John was born at the Fox family's new residence 
            at 3 Brighton Place in October 1824. (The house in Brighton Place 
            had previously belonged to the Caven family). Edward Fox senior is 
            listed as an artist at 3 Brighton Place in Brighton street directories 
            up until 1843. During this period, Edward Fox, senior, produced a 
            number of paintings of Brighton and the surrounding area. He made 
            several watercolours of Brighton Beach and distinctive Brighton buildings 
            such as the Royal Pavilion and the famous Seawater Baths in Pool Valley. 
            Edward Fox senior mainly worked in watercolour, but he did produce 
            a few oil paintings on canvas. Fox's oil paintings include a View 
            of Brighton from Race Hill and one of Market Street in the old centre 
            of Brighton. 
            Market Street was close to Fox's house in Brighton Place and ran alongside 
            Brighton's popular landmark The Lanes.

Fishermen on Brighton Beach 
            by Edward Fox (1871)


Edward 
            Fox junior was among the few Brighton photographers who looked upon 
            photography as an art form, regularly submitting his work to be displayed 
            in London art galleries. Edward Fox made his living from private commissions 
            to record a proud owner's horse, grand residence or recently acquired 
            sculpture, but the work he displayed,for example, at the Photographic 
            Society's annual exhibitions, reflect the concerns of a landscape 
            artist. From the descriptions of the work shown by Fox at various 
            exhibitions, it seems clear that they had artistic purpose and were 
            not drawn from his stock of commercial commissions. In June 1866, 
            for example, Fox exhibited "studies of trees in and out of leaf." 
            Later advertisements and notices in the press refer to "Land 
            & Sea Studies" "Forest Trees in Winter and Summer." 
            and "Cloud & Sea Studies." By the late 1870s, Fox came 
            to realize the commercial possibilities of his artistic photographs 
            which featured trees, clouds, and sea and was offering these prints 
            as "Studies for Artists."
Edward 
          Fox junior (1823-c1899)
Edward 
            Fox junior's mother died some time before 1871. When the 1871 Census 
            was taken on 2nd April 1871, Edward Fox senior was recorded as an 
            "Artist Painter", a widower aged 82, living at 44 Market 
            Street with his eldest son Edward, a 48 year old bachelor. In 1875, 
            Edward Fox senior, a landscape artist who had recorded Brighton's 
            streets, buildings and sea-front for a period of sixty years, passed 
            away. However, a notice in a Sussex newspaper indicates that Edward 
            Fox was not living alone at 44 Market Street after his father's death. 
            In 1875, an advertisement for Edward Fox's Landscape Photography in 
            the "Hastings Independent" provides evidence that Fox's 
            premises at 44 Market Street was being shared by a Miss Weekes, who 
            modelled "wax flowers from Nature." No longer a confirmed 
            bachelor, Edward Fox married Miss Sarah Ann Weekes at St Peter's Church 
            Brighton on 27th October 1875. Sarah Weekes, who was born in Brighton 
            in 1843, was twenty years younger than Edward Fox. When the next advertisement 
            for Edward Fox's Landscape Photography appeared, a notice was attached 
            to the bottom of the display, announcing "Wax Flowers from Nature, 
            by Mrs Edward Fox (Miss Weekes) - specimens on view. Lessons given."
Edward 
            Fox junior, as the son of a respected landscape painter, was likely 
            to regard himself primarily as an artist, rather than an ordinary 
            commercial photographer. In the 1861 Census, Edward Fox junior gave 
            his profession as "Artist, Designer and Photographer." Fox's 
            advertisements in the 1860s, 1870s and 1880s generally introduced 
            the proprietor of 44 Market Street as ' Edward Fox - Artist ,' rather 
            than the commonplace ' photographer '.
44 Market Street and the adjoining Pump House Tavern. When this photograph 
            was taken in the early 1950s, No 44 was occupied by J. S. North, Bookbinder. 
            The Fox family lived at 44 Market Street from about 1845.Edward Fox 
            junior worked from this building as a photographer for nearly 50 years.
In 
            Folthorp's General Directory for Brighton, Hove & Cliftonville, 
            which had been corrected to May 1862, eighteen professional photographic 
            studios are listed. Nearly all the photographic artists listed specialised 
            in portrait work. Of all the photographers listed, only Edward Fox 
            junior described himself purely and simply as a landscape photographer. 
            Every single advertisement placed by Edward Fox was headed with the 
            words 'Landscape Photography.' The texts of these advertisements detailed 
            the type of work that Fox the photographer carried out - "Private 
            Photographic Views, Monuments, Copies of Sculpture, Interiors, Architecture, 
            Copying, and Instantaneous Portraits of Animals, Groups etc taken 
            in Brighton or the Country." Unlike all the other Brighton photographers 
            of this time. Fox never offers to take a studio portrait of an individual 
            person. It appears that the only portrait he is prepared to take is 
            that of a favourite or prized animal. People are only taken as part 
            of a large group outside of the studio. In addition to his private 
            commissions taken in Brighton and the surrounding countryside , Fox 
            offered for sale "Local Views & Stereoscopic Slides", 
            with titles such "The Chain Pier During a Gale" and "The 
            Chain Pier by Moonlight." In an 1867 advertisement, which appeared 
            in the 'Brighton Examiner' newspaper, Edward Fox of 44 Market Street, 
            Brighton advised readers that "Fox's local views, panorama of 
            Brighton etc." could be purchased from "principal stationers."
Edward Fox junior 
            is first listed as a professional photographer in the Professions 
            and Trades Section of Folthorp's 1862 Directory for Brighton, yet 
            there is evidence that by this date he had been taking photographs 
            for over ten years. An advertisement for Edward Fox's 'Landscape Photography' 
            published in the Brighton Examiner of 1867, states he was established 
            as a photographer at 44 Market Street in 1851. A later advertisement 
            which appeared in Page's 1885 Directory included the statement "Edward 
            Fox has given his whole attention to Out-Door Photography since 1851." 
            It is highly likely that a photograph of the neighbouring shops at 
            Nos 42 and 43 Market Street, dating from around 1851, was taken by 
            Edward Fox junior. [ see illustration in The History of Photography 
            in Brighton section of this website ].

            A town guide, published by H & C Treacher in 1867, carried a full 
            page advertisement under the heading 'LANDSCAPE PHOTOGRAPHY - MR. 
            EDWARD FOX, ARTIST, - 44, MARKET STREET, BRIGHTON' in which the photographer 
            gave details of his 'Local Views & Stereoscopic Slides', including 
            an item with the title "King's Road, with the Comet of 1858." 
            On the 29th October 1860, The Brighton Art Society held a 'Conversazione' 
            at the Royal Pavilion, which featured an exhibition of " works 
            of art, photography and objects of interest." A review of the 
            exhibition which appeared in a Brighton newspaper later that week, 
            singled out for praise the photographic work of the artist "Mr 
            E. Fox - whose landscapes were excellent."

            When the Census was taken on 7th April 1861, the unmarried 38 year 
            old Edward Fox junior was still living with his parents at 44 Market 
            Street. Edward Fox senior, the Head of the Household, is described 
            as an "Artist, Painter" aged 73. Edward Fox junior gave 
            his occupation as "Artist, Designer & Photographer." 
            All the other sons had left the family home, but Edward's younger 
            brother, John Fox, a "commission agent", was visiting his 
            parents at the time of the census.

            Edward Fox senior carried on as a landscape artist up until his death 
            in 1875. At the Brighton Art Exhibition of 1861, the 73 year old painter 
            showed three sketches, including one called "Waiting for the 
            Boat." In Brighton Directory listings, Edward Fox senior continued 
            to advertise his services under the name of Edward Fox and Son, Artists, 
            at 44 Market Street up until 1874, the year before his death. No doubt, 
            Edward Fox junior assisted his elderly father with decorative art 
            projects in the 1860s and early 1870s, but advertisements indicate 
            that his main occupation during this period was as a Landscape and 
            Architectural Photographer.
Fishing Boats by Edward Fox 
            [COURTESY OF STEVEN EVANS]
Preston Circus, Brighton showing 
            the buildings of Longhurst's Amber Ale Brewery by Edward Fox (1879).The 
            dark building on the far left of the picture is the Stanford Arms 
            Inn. The Duke of York Cinema and the Fire Station now occupy the site 
            of the brewery.

This 
          website is dedicated to the memory of Arthur T. Gill (1915-1987), Sussex 
          Photohistorian