
Biography of J. Edward Fox
Fox manages USAID's congressional and press relations; outreach to the public and constituent groups to communicate the Agency's mission, objectives and accomplishments; production of print, video and Internet materials; and internal communications.
His previous government service includes Assistant Secretary of State for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs from 1986-1989 and Special Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs from 1985-1986. Fox began his career on Capitol Hill, where he worked on the personal staff of two Members of Congress.  He later served on the professional staff of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the House of Representatives, where he was a specialist on the subcommittees on Asia, Africa, and Latin America.
Back to Top ^
Before assuming his present position, Fox was President of Fox & Associates, a government and public affairs consulting firm specializing in representation at the state, national and international levels with a focus on the Washington political and policy process.  He served as Vice President for International Affairs of The Carmen Group, a government relations, public affairs and business development firm, before establishing his own consulting company.  From 1989 to 2000, Fox was Managing Director of the Governmental and International Affairs Group of the national law firm Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky & Popeo, P.C.
Throughout his career, Fox has been a frequent guest lecturer at the State Department and at numerous universities on the U.S. foreign policy process and executive/legislative relations.  In addition, he has served as an adviser to several Washington-based foreign policy institutions and also as an official election observer in six countries around the world.
J. Edward Fox was sworn in on November 6, 2001, as Assistant Administrator for the Bureau for Legislative and Public Affairs, U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). Fox was appointed by President George W. Bush to this Senate-confirmed position.
Born in Columbus, Ohio, Fox has a bachelor's degree in political science from Ohio State University and a master's in legislative affairs from George Washington University.
He has extensive government and private sector experience in the areas of public affairs, business development, international trade, economics, and national security.  His background also includes more than 20 years of senior federal service in both the executive and legislative branches of government.