
The 65-year-old actor has long-played roles which require him to display aristocratic or upper class qualities.
Although he is fondly remembered for his royal role, his career in stage and screen has spanned four decades.
He and Joanna David also have a 13-year-old son named Freddy, while Fox has a daughter, Lucy, from his first marriage.
He continues to be passionate about the things that matter to him and was recently on the Countryside March in London to protect hunting.
Although he has been on stage and screen for nearly 40 years he described acting as a "hard business" because of the many months he spent between jobs.
One of his biggest roles was as the slippery British assassin in the 1973 adaptation of Frederick Forsyth's The Day of the Jackal.
Fox was educated at Harrow School and went on to join the Coldstream Guards, but "wasn't viewed as the right stuff".
"I find something rather offensive about men of
my age slavering over younger women," he said.
He admits he still wears the suits he donned for Edward and Mrs Simpson, even though he knows it makes him seem fusty.
He won a TV Bafta for his performance as the Prince of Wales opposite Cynthia Harris as Wallis Simpson.
No jeans
Fox has a reputation of his dapper and well-spoken, almost Edwardian, on-screen persona translating into real-life.
He starred in the Oscar-winning Gandhi as General Dyer and as M in the James Bond movie Never Say Never Again.
He once controversially said he did not think a man's fidelity was a matter "of much importance" and that "a woman cries and having cried a little bit she bores herself and it's over".
Countryside

And his next project will see him team up with his 28-year-old daughter, Emilia, in Republic of Love, which is based on a novel by Pulitzer prize-winning author Carol Shields.
He has also confessed that his womanising ways have caused upset to his long-term partner, actress Joanna David, mother of Emilia.
But he persevered, going on to win three Bafta awards, including best supporting actor for The Go-Between in 1970, and 1977's A Bridge Too Far.
But he is proud of the fact that he has never worn jeans, adding: "I won't wear shell suits either."
But he also abhors the image of an older man out on the prowl.
Edward Fox is best remembered for his consummate performance as Edward VIII in the television drama Edward and Mrs Simpson in 1980.