
Copyright © 1996 Edward A. Fox, John L. Eaton, Gail McMillan, Neill A. Kipp, Laura Weiss, 
Emilio Arce, and Scott Guyer

In some cases, there are statewide consortia for library information
sharing. Thus, the VIrtual library of VirginiA (VIVA) initiative
could allow for a statewide coordination of part of the NDLTD,
supporting the needs of small universities where running suitable
servers is not warranted.
For digital libraries to be successful, they must be sustainable,
scalable and usable. With a world-class Center for Human-Computer
Interaction at Virginia Tech, and with a Department of Computer Science whose main
focus is HCI, working toward a usable system will be an ongoing
and central concern for our efforts. Usability labs and research
in remote usability evaluation should help our efforts, as will
related projects for WWW monitoring and analysis. So, we turn
our attention to the other two legs of successful digital libraries,
starting with sustainability.
The NDLTD effort will involve collaboration with the Cornell Digital
Library Research Group, which has developed the software used
with NCSTRL, and with CNRI, which has developed the handle system
and other digital library services. There also is collaboration
with IBM regarding their digital library systems and software.
OCLC has promised support from its Office of Research, especially
regarding useful tools. Other collaboration will take place in
the context of electronic publishing work, such as with Adobe.
The Faculty Development Initiative at Virginia Tech involves training
the entire faculty over a four year period about electronic publishing,
workstations, networked computing, and educational technologies.
A regular part of the FDI is for faculty to learn about Adobe
Acrobat and the handling of ETDs - thus over 600 have been trained
about this initiative. Others have been exposed in College meetings,
through newspaper explanations, or through the open workshops.
Since Spring 1996, there have been a variety of workshops to train
students regarding electronic publishing (using PDF, tools like
Word and Exchange, LaTeX) and the automated submission effort.
By holding events every few months, handling email questions,
making special visits to interested groups, and providing on-line
FAQ files, the needs of graduate students are being addressed.
Thus, we hope to not only develop a large and valuable digital
library to support graduate education and research, but also to
show that it has proved to be of benefit, and that graduate students
indeed know how to publish electronically and how to use digital libraries.
While SGML has always seemed the logical choice for an archive
of TDs, there have been serious technical and economic problems
that have delayed its usage. First, few graduate students had  heard 
about SGML, and it seemed unlikely that we could educate them about it. However, with
the growth in interest in HTML, this problem has been largely
eliminated. Second, there are few freely available editors for
SGML. While this continues to be the case, discussions are underway
with a number of vendors to work out economically feasible solutions
in the context of the NDLTD. Third, there has been the problem
of how to find an acceptable DTD that would be suitable for authors,
technically sound, and could be adopted nationwide. We believe
we have solved this problem - see the DTD and related documentation
at our WWW site (http://etd.vt.edu/etd/). While it may evolve
as comments are received, we hope some version of it will be universally
adopted so that TDs are tagged to facilitate searching and formatting.
In particular, we have developed software to convert from documents
prepared according to the DTD to HTML (for WWW delivery - see
our illustration of the ETD Hyper-Text Structure)
or LaTeX (for rendering to paper or page images).
Finally, there is the higher end requirement of supporting special
multimedia forms. Special systems for audio and video capture
and compression are required for these media types. Note, however,
that if there are no special multimedia laboratories available
on campus, students can pay for such services themselves.


For NDLTD to be successful, there must be long term support. UMI
already has an archive of 1.3 million TDs, in microform, and is
willing and able to provide long term electronic archive services.
Other groups also are interested in this opportunity. Negotiations
between universities and UMI are needed to work out the proper
arrangement for all parties, in the context of the growth of NDLTD.
One technical problem with PDF that troubled our early efforts
has been solved in 1996. That is, there are publicly available
outline fonts that allow authors who work with LaTeX to
prepare PDF files without including bitmap fonts (which increase
file size, make display and reading on screen impossible, and
restrict text searching options). We are developing automated
services on Sun systems to allow authors to prepare PDF files
with the proper outline fonts included.
NCSTRL is one of the early adopters of the CNRI handle system.
Virginia Tech has obtained permission for a top-level naming authority
for theses and will run a local handle server for TDs so
that persistent names can be guaranteed.
Similarly, many university libraries and/or archives have assumed
the responsibility of having copies of works written by local
faculty, staff and students. This has been a particularly strong
tradition in the arena of theses and dissertations. On many campuses
the library is committed to maintaining such works indefinitely,
which fits into the long term goals of the NDLTD.
In 1992, the Coalition for Networked Information sponsored a project
discovery workshop with 11 invited universities, each
of which had documented the interest of their graduate school,
library and computing/information technology groups. This meeting
was planned by representatives of UMI, Council of Graduate Schools,
and Virginia Tech. Subsequently, a number of further discussions
were held at CNI meetings. In connection with one of these, representatives
from UMI and Virginia Tech visited Adobe, to learn about plans
for the Adobe Acrobat family of tools.
Finally, students are likely to benefit financially from the NDLTD.
Publishing electronically should save them the costs of preparing
at least some of the paper copies now required. There also may
be lower fees from their university and other parties for filing
their final copy.
Edward A. Fox, John L. Eaton, Gail McMillan
Neill A. Kipp, Laura Weiss, Emilio Arce, and Scott Guyer
Virginia Tech
Blacksburg, Virginia
http://etd.vt.edu/etd/
etd@vt.edu
University libraries can save shelf space that would otherwise
be taken up by TDs, and the costly handling of paper TDs by personnel
in the graduate school and library can be reduced or eliminated.
At Virginia Tech, for example, the catalogers decided to have
students assist with cataloging by adding keywords to the cover
page, thus reducing processing in the library. It seems likely
that at least one person in each large university can be freed
to work on other tasks if proper automation takes place, resulting
in simplification of the work flow related to TDs. In addition,
library on-line catalogs can provide fuller information by including
the abstract from the electronic text.
Project Director:  Edward A. Fox
The U.S. Department of Education's Fund for the Improvement of
Post Secondary Education supports NDLTD. Authorized funding for
the first year is in the amount $69,762. Anticipated future funding
for years 2 and 3 are: $69,337 and $68,941. If all federal funding
is received as planned, the total would be $208,040. Virginia
Tech will provide institutional support which gives federal/nongovernmental
percentages 53.3/46.7. Additional in-kind support for the FIPSE
proposal has been promised by: ACM, Adobe, Council of Graduate
Schools, Coalition for Networked Information, Cornell Digital
Library Research Group, Council of Southern Graduate Schools,
IBM, OCLC, State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, SOLINET,
SURA, UMI, and University of Utah Graduate School.
This article serves as an overview of the project, indicating
what benefits are likely, what roles various partners (including,
we hope, you, the reader) may play, and what related work has
occurred in the past. It is also an invitation to universities
to unlock their resources in connection with this collaborative
project.
As in the case of the Monticello Electronic Library, having a
regional consortium for NDLTD is quite sensible and feasible.
There are parallel groups to SURA, SOLINET, and the Conference
of Southern Graduate Schools in other regions of the U.S.
In 1993, SURA and SOLINET (Southeastern Libraries Network) joined
forces to work toward the Monticello Electronic Library. At the
first open meeting, Edward Fox of Virginia Tech was invited to
give a presentation, re-introduced the idea of the ETDs, and subsequently became co-chair of the working 
group on theses, dissertations, and technical reports. There
was widespread interest in this and subsequent meetings, and University
presidents saw the potential benefits as well at various SURA
discussions. Consequently, a group of interested universities
sent representatives to a workshop at Virginia Tech in August
1994, hoping to develop specific plans for ETDs. One key decision
from that meeting was to work toward a dual representation scheme.
Thus, two copies of each TD would be archived, one using Adobe
PDF and the other using SGML. Virginia Tech and UMI agreed to
explore the SGML conversion problem in more detail. Virginia Tech
began to convert some of the TDs it received to PDF.
The NDLTD should help almost everyone, and so, through broad cooperation
and participation, should be a sustainable effort. Let's take
a moment to consider its likely effects on the key parties involved:
students, universities, the research community, and the publishing
world.
Every university with a graduate program is obliged to deal with
TDs and to ensure that graduate students are properly educated.
As argued above, the NDLTD is in the best interest of students
and universities. Thus, to carry out the mission of educating
graduate students and handling their TDs, universities should
ensure that they know how to publish electronically and how to
use digital libraries, which can be accomplished most efficiently
by joining the NDLTD effort.
First, if Adobe's Portable Document Format (PDF) is the target
representation, most PC, Mac and Unix systems can run the software
required to prepare PDF files. Though there are minor complexities
related to fonts and special formatters like LaTeX, these can
be worked out, and the investment by students or labs in Adobe
software is not high (e.g., about $40 per copy of Exchange).
Since we aim to improve graduate education, we must afford equal
access and undertake a careful evaluation. A detailed evaluation
plan is given in the proposal, to include surveys, logging, focus
groups, and other efforts. Usability studies will help with detailed
analysis and improvements of interfaces. It is expected that about
one-third of the project will relate to evaluation issues, both
formative and summative.
Nick Altair, then at UMI, who had recently worked on the Electronic
Manuscript Project, convened a meeting in 1987 in Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Representatives from University of Michigan, ArborText, SoftQuad,
and Virginia Tech participated.
Soon after, Yuri Rubinsky of SoftQuad worked with Virginia Tech
to develop the first SGML Document Type Definition (DTD) for TDs.
(This was only revised in 1996, in connection with recent efforts
supported by SURA - see below.) Virginia Tech continued work in
1989 and 1990, experimenting with conversion of TDs that were
obtained on diskette from student volunteers.
The NDLTD has support from many groups interested in universities,
graduate education, libraries and networked information. There
will be close coordination with the national and regional graduate
school groups, presentations supported by CNI, and of course ongoing
work with SURA and SOLINET, as well as similar associations in
other regions.
At universities, while moving toward the NDLTD is clearly advantageous,
such a shift requires many changes in policies and practices.
The best way to accomplish this seems to be to develop a local
plan, with guidance from key staff in the graduate school(s),
the library, and the computing or information technology operations,
as is illustrated in our diagram of ETD Site Implementation.
Then, workflow changes and automation opportunities are likely
to be grasped and become practice. With leadership from these
three groups, students and faculty can be consulted and involved
in detailed planning. It appears likely that a transition period
of about a year is required to effect the change from introduction
of concept to widespread acceptance and participation in the NDLTD.
Note that real benefits of workflow improvement and universal
access to online graduate research require a nearly complete
shift to electronic submissions of all TDs.
In Spring 1996, the Commission on Graduate Affairs agreed to require
ETDs at the start of 1997. Thus, all students will prepare an
electronic submission, and the Library and Graduate school will
not accept or receive paper submissions. This is a serious plan!
We hope that after months or perhaps a year of working with the
NDLTD, other universities will follow this scheme, so that students
really will learn how to publish electronically and use digital
libraries.
Student research should be aided by the NDLTD since graduate students
will have a single repository for the work of their peers, supported
by full-text search. Other researchers, including people in companies
interested in opportunities for technology transfer, can look
to the NDLTD as a way to quickly learn of new findings.
Automation is the key to increasing efficiency in handling TDs.
The Library and Graduate School have completely redone the flow
of work at Virginia Tech so as to eliminate steps and carryovers
from the world of paper. For example, authors now are encouraged
to submit single spaced documents, which are easier to read on
the screen than double-spaced documents. Authors assign keywords
to their documents, since catalogers have trouble assigning categories
to new works like TDs. Authors directly upload their submissions
to a library server, where the graduate school can check for proper
form; there is no longer a need to deliver to the graduate
school and have them move completed works to the library.
IBM has collaborated with Virginia Tech in several ways regarding
digital libraries. The central server for the NDLTD will run IBM
digital libraries software. Where possible, local development
will be reduced when commercially available solutions apply.
Beginning in 1992, with the Wide Area Technical Report Service
(WATERS), Virginia Tech has been involved in digital library efforts
related to computer science technical reports.   In 1995, the WATERS group joined the CSTR group to 
form the Networked Computer Science Technical Report Library (NCSTRL). Virginia Tech
is a regular member. Fox is a member of the NCSTRL Working Group, and the NCSTRL backup server 
runs in the Virginia Tech Computing Center.
Third, there is the question of images. Since many TDs have some
type of artwork, color scanners with high quality capture capability
at 600dpi must be available, along with computers, adequate  RAM
and disk storage, software (e.g., Adobe Photoshop), technical
assistance, and network transfer capabilities to move the results
to locations students can more easily access.
Suppliers of electronic publishing software already have found
it valuable to participate in the NDLTD. Adobe is making generous
donations of their Acrobat software, in part because they realize
that having all graduate students exposed to the Acrobat line
of tools will ensure a large base of future users. Associations
like ACM (the First Society in Computing) are supportive,
in part because having their members learn to publish electronically
in graduate school can help reduce the anticipated cost of shifting
to electronic publishing, when authors will be expected to submit
final copies of acceptable articles in proper forms (e.g., using
SGML) for publication and electronic archiving.
When SGML submissions are easily accomplished, they will be the
basis for a variety of derivatives. One is the HTML version already
mentioned. Another is the MARC record needed for cataloging. Third
is the entry for Dissertation Abstracts. Once these can
be produced, the submission process will be simplified even further.
D-Lib Magazine, September 1996
In the last several years, PDF has matured and been more widely
supported, with freeware tools like xpdf aiming to round
out the ability to read such documents on UNIX systems. Any computer
with Adobe Exchange can write to the PDFwriter instead of a laser
printer, and create a PDF file. PostScript files can be converted
to PDF using Adobe Distiller. Since almost every tool used in
document creation can either work with the PDFwriter or yield
a PostScript file, electronic publishing to PDF is relatively
straightforward and can be taught during a 1-2 hour training session.
Universities support students in their roles of publishers and
researchers. Having the right infrastructure to support local
involvement in the NDLTD fits in with the general type of support
that universities need to provide.
Graduate students also may be empowered to be more expressive
as they prepare their submissions for the NDLTD, if such is allowed
by their committee, department, and university. Some students
have already prepared hypertexts as literature, included color
images or graphics, illustrated concepts with animations, explained
processes with video, or used audio when dealing with musical
studies. One masters project about training students to use Authorware
included an Authorware tutorial in the appendix. This has already
helped people in South America learn more about multimedia technology.
Standards also are essential for the success of the NDLTD. If
the archive will last for decades, hopefully centuries, its content
must be usable many years after publication. If authors work with
standard representations, those are more likely to be understood
than are representations that are unpublished and proprietary
in nature. If the number of standards supported is kept to a minimum,
there will be less work in refreshing the archive as technologies
and standards change, calling for conversion to more modern storage
and representation schemes.
In the U.S., the NDLTD represents the national effort. Researchers
in other countries like Korea are looking into a similar effort
in their country that would connect with NDLTD.
hdl://cnri.dlib/september96-fox
If many in the international community join in, the project could
lead to a multilingual corpus of vast proportion and significance.
Our collection focus is on doctoral dissertations and masters
theses, so we will repeatedly refer to TDs (theses and dissertations)
or ETDs (electronic theses and dissertations). However, we also
welcome special reports (especially those prepared by graduate
students) and bachelor theses. Since there are over 40,000 doctoral
and 360,000 masters degrees awarded in the U.S. alone each year,
and since our aim is for all graduate students to learn how to
publish electronically, the annual growth rate of the collection
could exceed 100,000 new works per year by the turn of the century.
If there is a fair amount of multimedia content included, as we
expect will be the case, the collection might increase in size
at the rate of about a terabyte each year.
Central to our automation is a WWW submission page, which is filled
in by the author, and leads to uploading and archiving of the
TD. This operation includes students authorizing the university
to handle access (non-exclusively) to their works, classifying
the work (e.g., thesis or dissertation), and providing email information
about them and their chair (so completion of processing can lead
to automatic notification).
If every graduate student is to submit an ETD, enhancement
to the campus infrastructure is required in most institutions.
Usually, this is more a matter of will and coordination than large
expense, and most would agree that the end result is highly desirable.
Let us consider several possible scenarios.
Our project is primarily an effort to improve graduate education.
We will work so that graduate students become information literate,
learning how to become electronic publishers and knowing how to
use digital libraries in their research. The overall process is
shown in our diagram of the Life Cycle of an ETD.
Toward this end we continue to develop written documents, extensive
WWW materials, and a distributed education and evaluation program
in which universities accept responsibility for local support.
Late in 1995, Virginia Tech prepared a pre-proposal to the U.S.
Department of Education regarding a three year effort to build
the NDLTD, and also requested that SURA fund initial work on establishing
a part of the Monticello Electronic Library for ETDs for the Southeast.
The first of these led to funding September 1, 1996 and the latter
covered calendar year 1996 pilot efforts in the Southeast. North
Carolina State University was the first institution seeking to
join the initiative, and initial electronic submissions are expected
there in October. The first regional workshop for Southeastern
universities was held August 1-2, 1996, hosted by University of
North Carolina, Charlotte. Many discussions have been held, and
presentations given, in the region, nation, and even internationally.
There appears to be interest in such institutions as: Auburn,
Clemson, Georgia Tech, Michigan State, Mississippi State, MIT,
Oklahoma State, University of Georgia, University of Utah, University
of Virginia, and Vanderbilt.
Access begets access, so having more graduate works in the NDLTD
is likely to simulate greater interest in theses and dissertations
(TDs). Studies at Virginia Tech of the average number of times
a paper TD circulates per year indicate a steady growth from 0.55
to 0.85 circulations between years 2 and 4 for dissertations,
with a roughly parallel line for theses reflecting an increase
from 0.4 to 0.68 circulations over the same period. Based on the
increases we have seen in numbers of accesses to electronic journals
as they became available on WWW, we expect that there will be
a dramatic increase in the average number of accesses to TDs when
they shift from paper to NDLTD availability. Most students are
eager for their works to be cited, and we plan for our monitoring
and evaluation system to record such accesses. With bibliographies
on-line too, a citation index among NDLTD entries will be possible
as well, helping students keep track of new studies related to
their investigations.
Indeed, it is likely that future shifts in publication practices
will be facilitated by the effort to build the NDLTD. This is
of particular interest to universities, which now cannot control
what happens to the research publications they support, and later
spend large sums to buy back research publications from commercial
publishers. Through the NDLTD, universities can control one important
class of the intellectual property they produce, and can share
it freely with other universities to reduce overall costs.
Each university has responsibility for its own TD collection,
but can handle that locally or assign it to others. At the level
of a university the problems are not terribly large - even if
a thousand ETDs are submitted in a year, the disk space required
to store them probably would cost less than $3,000.
Finally, there is the outstanding problem of conversion from word
processors and formatters to SGML. We are developing a set of
LaTeX macros to ensure reliable conversion from LaTeX to SGML.
Similar efforts are planned for Microsoft Word, but may be simplified
if SGML Author for Word will fit into the plans.
Though the NDLTD is new to many readers, work on it actually began
late in 1987! A brief history is in order.

Because of saving the costs of copying and submitting paper versions
of their TD, we believe students have an economic incentive to
participate in the NDLTD. Similar savings are expected for universities,
in particular their graduate school and library. Since students
still will provide some payment to their university when submitting
the TD, there is an economic foundation for continuing the effort
as a self-sustaining enterprise.
Since almost everyone stands to benefit from the development of
the NDLTD, we encourage you to help in this process in a way that
fits the mission of your institution. For example, if you are
engaged in the development of software or systems for digital
libraries, or helping with standards efforts, you can help directly
with building the NDLTD. If you are at a university, you can help
build local consensus and devise a supporting infrastructure so
the NDLTD is a key part of graduate education.
Interest in ETDs has continued and spread since 1987.
The software used with NCSTRL is available for use with NDLTD
and can support a distributed system including situations in which
UMI and Virginia Tech, for example, serve sites that do not wish
to maintain their own servers.
Future work on the NDLTD is laid out in the proposal to the U.S.
Department of Education, which is included in PDF form on the
WWW pages for the project. Collaboration with UMI is expected
on all fronts. Some of the other highlights are as follows.
Since 1991, Virginia Tech has worked with ACM and others to develop
a prototype digital library for computer science and to apply
it to improve related educational efforts. Some of the software
developed may be of use for NDLTD. The methods and tools used
for monitoring WWW use and analyzing that data will be a part
of the evaluation component for NDLTD.
Few universities have a university press, and many of those are
not profitable. Yet, through the NDLTD, every university can publish
the results of its graduate students with a minimal investment.
This should increase university prestige, and interest outsiders
in the research work undertaken.
With access to the NDLTD, graduate students will be able to find
the full texts of related works easily, to read literature reviews
prepared by their peers, and to follow hypertext links to relevant
data and findings. Their professors will be able to point to the
best examples of research in their area, even to the level of
an interesting table, an illustrative figure, or an enlightening
visualization. Also, students can benefit by learning how to become
electronic publishers, preparing them for their future work. Since
this educational initiative targets all graduate students, it
is unique in its potential to train future generations of scholars,
researchers, and professors. If they can publish electronically
and add to digital libraries, future works they write will not have to be
scanned or re-keyed.
The NDLTD must operate as a production service if it is to replace
current library approaches to handling TDs. Thus, reliable, commercially
supported digital library systems are needed for long term success.
Companies like University Microfilms International (UMI), IBM, and Online Computer Library Center 
(OCLC) are participating in the unfolding
of the NDLTD. Thus, IBM donated a large SMP computer that will
serve as the central host for this effort, and which can run IBM
digital library software. Various IBM products for handling databases,
image collections, searching on image content, and rights management
have great potential for helping with the NDLTD.
As of September 1, 1996, the U.S. Department of Education provided
grant support for a three-year, Virginia Tech-led project to Improve
Graduate Education with a National Digital Library of Theses and
Dissertations (NDLTD), adding to 1996 funding from the Southeastern
Universities Research Association (SURA) for Development and
Beta Testing of the Monticello Electronic Library Thesis and Dissertation
Program. True success in these projects will potentially mean
a permanent change in graduate education and scholarly publishing,
with digital libraries playing a more dominant role in supporting
and disseminating research.
Second, if SGML is the target representation, there are various
solutions. One is to use a standard editor, inserting tags, much
like what is done by many HTML authors. While possible, the number
of tags (see our illustration of the Parts of an ETD)
needed makes this cumbersome. Thus, it is better to use an SGML
editor, but those are expensive. Microsoft is assisting with the
investigation of the SGML Author extension to Word
as an appropriate tool, which could be made available in small
numbers in campus labs. Virginia Tech is working on conversion
software and templates to enable students to use preferred environments
like LaTeX, and to automatically make a 100% accurate conversion
to SGML.
Development of the NDLTD fits in with other digital library and
other electronic publishing efforts. Some of the most closely
related ones are as follows.
The NDLTD effort is scalable by its very nature. First, it builds
upon a system of higher education (in the United States) that has demonstrated
its ability to scale to meet needs throughout the twentieth century.
Second, it makes use of technology that is modular and distributed,
and which is addressing needs of a growing number of computer
science departments. Further, this effort piggybacks upon other
normal activities of universities, relating to education, scholarly
communication, and libraries - each of which demonstrates a fair
degree of scalability.
The NDLTD presents unique challenges on many fronts, and help
is needed in various technical areas. On the one hand, it is desirable
for graduate students to be expressive, using multimedia representations,
but this can lead to very large works, even when compression is
required. While we observe many ETDs only require on the order
of a megabyte, we expect that with images and other media forms,
the average size will approach 5-10 megabytes. A single video
file can consume one or two orders of magnitude more space; it
is fortunate that a computer system with two terabytes of hierarchical
storage is available at Virginia Tech to support this project!
But even more important will be good software to undertake content
analysis of multimedia information. Other software is needed to
help with electronic publishing, and other aspects of digital
library operations.