
J. Edward Fox Sworn In As Head of USAID's Legislative and Public Affairs Bureau
Contact: USAID Press Office
As the head of the Legislative and Public Affairs (LPA) Bureau, Mr. Fox oversees all contact between the Agency and the U.S. Congress, including congressional members and committees. As part of his extensive portfolio, Mr. Fox is also responsible for enhancing the Agency's international presence and for communicating USAID's mission, objectives and accomplishments to the American public.
"I am deeply honored that President Bush has given me this opportunity to serve the country at this important time in our nation's history," said Mr. Fox. "I look forward to working closely with the Congress and the American public to build support for  the work USAID is doing around the world that is vital to our nation's foreign policy," concluded Fox.
WASHINGTON, D.C. - J. Edward Fox was sworn in Tuesday as the Assistant Administrator of the Bureau for Legislative and Public Affairs for the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID).
Prior to establishing Fox & Associates, a government and public affairs consulting firm, he served as Vice President of the International Division of The Carmen Group, a government relations, public affairs and business development firm. Mr. Fox also served in several senior positions at the Department of State including Assistant Secretary for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs. Mr. Fox also served in the Reagan Administration as Special Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs. He began his career on Capitol Hill, where he worked on the personal staff of two members of Congress and later as part of the professional staff of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs.
WASHINGTON, DC  20523
PRESS OFFICE
http://www.usaid.gov
(202) 712-4320
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
November 6, 2001
Mr. Fox has extensive government and private sector experience in the areas of public affairs, business development, international trade, economics and national security. His background also includes more than 16 years of senior federal service in both the executive and legislative branches of government.
For more than 40 years USAID has been the lead U.S. Government Agency for humanitarian assistance and economic development.
Mr. Fox obtained a B.A. in Political Science from Ohio State University and his M.A. in Legislative Affairs from the George Washington University.
Throughout his career, he has been a frequent guest lecturer at the State Department and at numerous universities on the subject of the U.S. foreign policy process and executive and legislative relations. In addition, Mr. Fox has served as an advisor to several Washington-based foreign policy institutions and has also served as an official election observer in six countries around the world.