
Evaluating the performance of multimedia retrieval algorithms is part of the MUSCLE, a EU Network of Excellence administrated by ERCIM.
A very important component of a benchmarking initiative is test data. A repository for such data has been set up within MUSCLE (see link below). Most of the data in this repository is publicly available, while some is restricted to use by members of MUSCLE. The publicly available data includes: video sequences of artificially generated humans in natural scenes for evaluating motion detection and tracking algorithms; videos of different human gestures and videos of various types of basketball shot for evaluating human behaviour interpretation algorithms. A collection of 10 000 images of coins for evaluating classification algorithms and content based image retrieval approaches is also available. This Coin Image Seibersdorf database (CIS) is a result of the changeover from 12 European currencies to the Euro. After the changeover, large volumes of mixed coin collections had to be returned properly sorted to the national banks of the originating countries. The database consists of roughly 2000 patterns (classes) of coins from many different countries. Additionally, there are 100 000 coin images collected during an automatic sorting process carried out at the ARC Seibersdorf research GmbH, which will later serve as test and benchmarking data. A carefully generated and manually verified ground truth accompanies the data. This makes the CIS database and benchmark definition ideally suited to a large scale evaluation of classification or object recognition algorithms.
All researchers in the multimedia information retrieval field are encouraged to contribute useful benchmarking data or software to this repository. This is particularly encouraged if results obtained by using this data have been published, as this allows other researchers to evaluate their algorithms on the same data. Furthermore, any ground truth or annotation for the data collections can also be contributed.
by Allan Hanbury and Michael Nölle
The network aims at achieving two grand challenges in the area of multimedia learning: natural high-level interaction with multimedia databases and interpreting human behaviour in videos. In order to measure the progress towards achieving these challenges, a benchmarking initiative has been started within MUSCLE. The activities taking place within this benchmarking initiative are also open to research groups not directly involved in MUSCLE.
The MUSCLE Network of Excellence aims at fostering close collaboration between research groups in multimedia data-mining and machine learning. Around 40 research groups are involved in the MUSCLE network, which has been in existence since March 2004.