
The message Operation Enigma 
        sends to DEA is also abundantly clear. To successfully dismantle illegal 
        drug empires, all law enforcement, both foreign and domestic, must band 
        together to attack these trafficking networks from their roots to the 
        tips of their branches."
SAC Furgason stated that in 
        the Atlanta area alone, Operation Enigma has led to the execution of 18 
        search warrants, the indictment of 24 individuals, and the filing of criminal 
        complaints charging an additional 12 people. Over the past four days, 
        over 200 law enforcement officers, including six SWAT teams have made 
        24 arrests, seized 18 kilograms of cocaine, 500 pounds of marijuana, 2 
        pounds of methamphetamine, enough liquid methamphetamine to produce a 
        half pound of "ice", over $2.5 million in U.S. Currency, 8 vehicles, 
        and 13 guns, including two assault rifles and a submachine gun.
The conspirators are known to 
        utilize hidden compartments welded into the gas tanks of tractor trailers, 
        and cover loads of produce to transport the illegal drugs northbound from 
        the Rio Grande Valley of South Texas. Bulk shipment is the preferred method 
        of returning the illegal drug proceeds back through South Texas and into 
        Mexico. During June 2003, one such bulk shipment of almost $1 million 
        U.S. Currency, bound for South Texas, was seized in the Atlanta area from 
        false compartments in cars stacked on an automobile carrier. During the 
        same month, the OCDETF Task Force was able to provide information to DEA 
        McAllen that yielded 5,600 pounds of marijuana.
News 
        Release [print 
        friendly page]
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
        September 4, 2003
"Operation 
        Enigma" Cripples International Drug Ring
SEP 4 
        -Special Agent in Charge (SAC) W. Michael Furgason, Sr. of the Atlanta 
        Division of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and Northern District 
        of Georgia United States Attorney William S. Duffey Jr. announced the 
        takedown of a large-scale international poly-drug organization that was 
        considered one of the Attorney General's "most wanted" drug 
        trafficking enterprises. In a news conference today, federal, state and 
        local officials unveiled "Operation Enigma", a national investigation 
        targeting a complex Mexican organization illegally trafficking in ton 
        quantities of marijuana, as well as multi-hundred pound amounts of cocaine 
        and methamphetamine.
The OCDETF Task Force wishes 
        to acknowledge the assistance of the Georgia State Patrol, Cobb County 
        and Gwinnett County Police Departments during this massive round-up.

SAC Furgason said, "Atlanta 
        and neighboring cities and states are confronting changes in the drug 
        trafficking threat. Joint enforcement operations such as these demonstrate 
        law enforcement's ability to respond to those changes. It is no exaggeration 
        to say that Atlanta has become a base of operations for well organized 
        and powerful international criminal organizations. These organizations 
        are extending their drug distribution network throughout the United States. 
        Our enforcement efforts are dedicated to identifying, arresting, and prosecuting 
        not only the international criminals based in the United States, but their 
        leaders that are headquartered in foreign countries."
DEA Administrator Karen P. Tandy 
        stated, "There is nothing puzzling about the message Operation Enigma 
        sends to drug traffickers. During the past week, Mexican and United States 
        authorities have combined to deal a crippling series of blows to the Armando 
        Valencia Organization (AVO), one of the 53 most-wanted drug trafficking 
        and money laundering organizations on the Attorney General's list known 
        as the Consolidated Priority Organization Target List (CPOT). These significant 
        enforcement operations could not have been accomplished without the dedicated 
        efforts of law enforcement on both sides of the border- beginning with 
        the Mexican authorities, whose tenacity and dedication led to the arrest 
        of Valencia himself on August 15th and culminating with Operation Enigma 
        operations which resulted in the takedown of AVO transportation and distribution 
        cells in Atlanta, Knoxville, and McAllen during the past week. DEA is 
        indebted to the 30 federal, state, and local agencies that supported these 
        enforcement activities.
Atlanta was the primary distribution 
        point for the organization. The defendants stored drugs here and distributed 
        them to North Carolina, Tennessee, and along the East Coast of the United 
        States. In addition to the takedown actions in Georgia; DEA in Knoxville, 
        Tennessee, and McAllen, Texas simultaneously executed an additional 21 
        arrest warrants and 14 search warrants. Since November 2002, seizures 
        from the organization have totaled approximately 25,000 pounds of marijuana, 
        about $3.9 million U.S. Currency, 300 kilos of cocaine, 21.9 kilos of 
        methamphetamine, and 35 guns, including 8 assault rifles and an illegal 
        machine gun.
Operation Enigma targeted a 
        transportation/distribution group that spanned multiple states and reports 
        to the Armando Valencia Organization (AVO) located within the Mexican 
        states of Michoacan and Jalisco. The AVO was one of 53 criminal organizations 
        designated by the Attorney General as a Consolidated Priority Organization 
        Target (CPOT). CPOT is a list of the "World's Most Wanted" drug 
        and money laundering enterprises responsible for the most significant 
        supply of drugs to the United States. This AVO cell co-inhabited the McAllen, 
        Texas and Atlanta, Georgia metropolitan areas.

This was an Organized Crime 
        Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) investigation conducted by the DEA's 
        Atlanta Field Division Office along with the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
        (FBI), Bureau of Immigration & Customs Enforcement (BICE), Internal 
        Revenue Service (IRS), Fayette County Sheriff's Office, Georgia Pardons 
        and Parole, and Georgia Department of Corrections.
The public is reminded that 
        the indictment contains only charges. A defendant is presumed innocent 
        and it will be the government's burden to prove a defendant's guilt beyond 
        a reasonable doubt at trial. Assistant United States Attorneys Michael 
        Brown and William Thomas are prosecuting the Operation Enigma case in 
        Atlanta.
The organization is well-disciplined, 
        violent, and very knowledgeable about law enforcement investigative techniques. 
        Consequently, the OCDETF Task Force was frequently challenged with multiple 
        obstacles created by the traffickers. According to Furgason- Investigators 
        worked diligently to overcome those obstacles presented and utilized multiple 
        investigative avenues to bring the case to fruition. He also noted that 
        23 of the 24 defendants arrested are citizens of Mexico illegally residing 
        in the U.S.