
Most coca is grown in the southern and western regions, where the 
government has no real presence and where the Revolutionary Armed Forces 
of Colombia (FARC) makes millions of dollars by protecting the coca 
fields, taxing cocaine production and guarding laboratories and 
airstrips. Paramilitary groups allied with the army also profit from the 
cocaine trade by protecting trafficking routes and running laboratories 
in areas they control.
The clearest window into the changes and growth in Colombian and Mexican 
drug trafficking structures was provided by Operation Millennium, a 
joint US-Colombian operation that netted 31 drug traffickers last month, 
including several identified by the Drug Enforcement Administration and 
Colombian police as kingpins who moved more cocaine than Pablo Escobar 
of Medellin or the Rodriguez Orejuela brothers in Cali.
At the same time, the official said, cocaine production in Peru and 
Bolivia has declined because coca cultivation has dropped significantly 
in both countries. Until two years ago, Colombian drug cartels relied 
heavily on coca grown in Bolivia and Peru to produce cocaine, but they 
now grow more high-grade coca than either of the other two Andean 
nations.
With few strong leaders left in Colombia, intelligence sources said, 
Bernal slowly began assembling specialists from remnants of different 
organizations and working with his Mexican connections to assemble a 
formidable cocaine pipeline.
Correspondent Molly Moore in Mexico City contributed to this report.
Carrillo Fuentes died while undergoing cosmetic surgery in July 1997, 
and shortly after that Colombia revived its extradition agreement with 
the United States. Fearing indictment and possible extradition if he 
moved his drugs directly to the United States, Bernal cut a deal in 
early 1998 with a Carrillo Fuentes lieutenant named Armando Valencia, 
Colombian and Mexican officials said.
Among the most important, according to the DEA, were Alejandro Bernal, 
Fabio Ochoa and Orlando Sanchez-Cristancho. Sanchez-Cristancho, wanted 
for murder in Colombia, is in custody in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. The man 
identified as the group's main Mexican operative, Armando Valencia, has 
eluded arrest.
"We estimate there are several hundred small cartels now operating in an 
atomized fashion," said a Colombian intelligence official. "Several of 
those groups fed into the organization we dismantled. But there are 
several other people out there as big as Bernal, who can put loads 
together from small organizations, and we don't even have them 
identified."
According to Colombian and Mexican officials, Bernal had a Miami-based 
business selling bathroom tiles when, in the mid-1980s, he was taken to 
Mexico to do a decorating job for Amado Carrillo Fuentes, the leader of 
the Juarez cartel. Bernal and Carrillo Fuentes became close friends, 
according to Mexican, Colombian and US officials, growing so close that 
Carrillo Fuentes was named the godfather of Bernal's twin daughters.
"When you take out the leadership of an organization now, you find that 
underneath there is really not an integrated structure," one US official 
said. "It is smart guys going through their Rolodexes and calling up 
people for specific jobs. . . . They are smarter, less visible and cause 
us all kinds of trouble."
One factor in the rapid growth of the Bernal-Valencia organization, 
according to US, Mexican and Colombian officials, is that Bernal would 
pay for cocaine delivered to him in Colombia even before he sold it to 
Valencia, thereby removing the risk for small Colombian traffickers. In 
addition, Valencia had a reputation for getting his loads safely to the 
United States and guaranteeing that he would cover the losses of any 
load that was lost or confiscated.
This means, according to US and Colombian officials, that overall 
estimates of cocaine production in South America may not increase as 
dramatically as the estimates for Colombia alone, but that, after years 
of decline, overall drug production is rising significantly and more 
cocaine than previously estimated is moving into the United States.
The boom in Colombian cocaine production comes as the United States has 
ratcheted up aid to the beleaguered government of President Andres 
Pastrana. In 1999, the United States provided Colombia with $289 million 
in aid, mostly to the police and military to fight drug trafficking. The 
Clinton administration is preparing to request a supplemental bill early 
next year of at least an additional $1 billion over the next three 
years.
At the time, Escobar's Medellin cartel waged an open war against the 
state through a terrorist campaign and high-profile assassinations. 
Escobar and most of his top henchmen were killed in 1993. The Cali 
cartel then emerged as the premier trafficking structure, buying 
political influence and judicial protection. The cartel's dominance 
ended in 1995, when its leaders were arrested or killed in a series of 
police raids.
"It is a whole new generation of traffickers who have carefully studied 
and learned from the mistakes of the groups that went before them," said 
Gen. Rosso Jose Serrano, director of the Colombian National Police who 
oversaw the dismantling of several major drug cartels. "They maintain an 
extremely low profile, they mix their licit and illicit businesses, they 
don't carry out terrorist acts and they operate in small, autonomous 
cells. They are much harder to fight than previous groups because they 
are much harder to find."
The irony, law enforcement officials said, is that many of the changes 
in drug trafficking strategy are driven by past successes in bringing 
down less sophisticated and more visible drug trafficking organizations.
The traffickers also had access to highly sophisticated encryption 
technology, far beyond what law enforcement has the capacity to break 
quickly, sources said. One US official said it took some of their best 
computers 24 hours to crack a 30-second transmission by the traffickers, 
making the exercise pointless. They also used sophisticated cellular 
phone cloning technology, stealing numbers that were already assigned to 
legitimate users, using them for a short period of time, then moving on 
to new numbers.
US officials agreed there is little intelligence on the new groups. 
Until Operation Millennium, US officials said they had not even heard of 
Armando Valencia, one of the biggest drug transportation operators in 
Mexico.
Unlike the previous organizations, the new Colombian traffickers 
contract out most of their jobs to specialists, who work on a job-to-job 
basis rather than as part of an integrated structure that would be 
easier to detect, the sources said. Most Colombian cocaine is sold in 
bulk to Mexican drug trafficking organizations, which also have 
undergone major changes in the last several years. They assume the risk 
of transporting it to the United States and distributing it.
Bernal was arrested in Mexico in 1989 with nearly 1,280 pounds of 
cocaine. When he was released three years later, he decided to return to 
Colombia, the sources said.
Only days before the arrests last month, Barry R. McCaffrey, the Clinton 
administration's drug policy director, estimated that a total of 350 
metric tons of cocaine from the entire Andean region was entering the 
United States every year. "This group was shipping what previous 
intelligence estimates had shown to be everything entering the United 
States," a US official said. "Numbers are all estimates, but clearly we 
have a lot more coming in than we thought."

Reported By Newsbytes.com, http://www.newsbytes.com .
The alliance prospered, according to US, Colombian and Mexican 
officials, because Bernal and Valencia were able to broker deals with 
drug trafficking organizations often at war with each other: Bernal with 
the FARC and paramilitaries, and Valencia with the Juarez cartel and its 
main rival, the Tijuana-based Arellano-Felix organization. Both leaders 
were able to remain undetected by law enforcement officials for years.
US and Colombian officials found the traffickers were making use of the 
latest technology to protect and advance their business. Bernal's 
operation kept in touch by using Internet chat rooms protected by 
firewalls that made them impossible to penetrate, officials said. In 
addition, each part of the operation fed its information on the day's 
sales and drug movements to a computer on a ship off the coast of 
Mexico, the officials said, so that if one computer were taken down, it 
would be impossible to trace the rest of the network.
Unlike the previous waves of drug traffickers, who were allied mostly 
with far-right paramilitary squads, the current leadership is prospering 
by dealing with all sides in the Colombian conflict.
These new techniques helped the traffickers move hundreds of tons of 
cocaine over several years before being detected. DEA officials and 
Colombian authorities said Bernal's group, working with Mexican 
organizations led by Valencia, shipped 20 tons to 30 metric tons of 
cocaine every month to the United States.
"It really opened our eyes," said one US official. "What we saw raised 
serious concerns that law enforcement won't be able to access 
traffickers' communications."
While increasing in sophistication, the traffickers have greatly 
expanded the cultivation and improved the quality of coca  the raw 
material for cocaine  in Colombian territory controlled by Marxist-led 
guerrillas or right-wing paramilitary groups. A senior US Justice 
Department official said the estimate that Colombia produced 165 metric 
tons of cocaine in 1998 "will at least double and maybe triple" in 1999.
Law enforcement's big break came in December 1998, when the DEA, with a 
warrant, searched the south Florida home of Carlos Jaramillo, one of the 
organization's top US operatives, according to Colombian and US 
officials. The DEA seized Jaramillo's computer and found a host of 
information on the group's computer connections.
Colombian drug traffickers now control most cocaine production from the 
raw material to the finished product, giving them more control of the 
drug-making process and enhancing their profits when the finished 
cocaine is sold to Mexican delivery specialists.