
In the first August 1 confrontation, authorities allege that Treviño
      and his men battled with Los Zetas, deserted, Mexican Army special forces
      that work for the Gulf cartel. In the second battle, federal authorities
      say they were attacked by men from the Milenio cartel.
Chávez also mentioned that customs brokers are meeting with his office
      to discuss opening operations in Matamoros.
The recent disappearance and murder of law enforcement authorities in
      Nuevo Laredo and the city's eight-month long war between rival drug
      cartels has resulted in the increased flow of goods through Matamoros,
      according to Jorge Alberto Chávez Camacho, the head of Customs in that
      city.
Arrested along with Valencia was Eloy Treviño, the alleged head of the
      Milenio cartel in Tamaulipas. All eight men have been charged with
      unspecified offenses related to drug trafficking and organized
      crime.
Also according to the PGR, Valencia's organization allegedly moved 200
      gunmen into 20 rental houses around Nuevo Laredo so that they could aid in
      the take over of the border city. In response to this, in April 2003, the
      PGR alleges that Los Zetas kidnapped and murdered nine men from one of the
      homes and left their bodies in the neighboring state of Nuevo León.
Sources: El Mañana (Nuevo Laredo), August 21, 2003. Reforma,
      August 16, 2003.
"Companies with recognizable brand names have made known their
      desire to work in Matamoros," said Chávez. "This is because
      they see that conditions in Nuevo Laredo are no longer appropriate."
Mexico's Attorney General's Office has announced that alleged Milenio
      cartel leader Armando Valencia Contreras was formally placed under arrest
      on Wednesday, August 20, 2003. Valencia and seven other men were detained
      on Friday, August 15 in Jalisco.

"Matamoros Customs is prepared to work in import and export
      operations and we're happy that they are doing it through here," said
      Chávez of the city's newfound customers.
One Japanese electronics giant that previously imported material into
      Mexico through Nuevo Laredo has already rerouted its goods through
      Matamoros, Chávez told the Matamoros newspaper El Bravo.
The PGR says that over the past two years the Milenio cartel has moved
      large quantities of cocaine into the US. It also holds Milenio responsible
      for two shipments of cocaine that totaled approximately 400 kilograms and
      that were later intercepted by the DEA in Atlanta.
Between July 2003 and August 2003, Customs saw a 7% increase in the
      fees it collected from importers, Chávez said. Chávez noted that the
      magnitude of the revenue increase exceeded what had been expected.
The Mexican Attorney General's Office (Procuraduría General de la
      República, PGR) said that Milenio was trying to take control of Nuevo
      Laredo away from the Gulf cartel. According to the PGR, this led to two
      widely-publicized street battles in Nuevo Laredo on August 1, 2003 that
      included the use of automatic weapons and a grenade launcher.
Violence Shifts Trade from Nuevo Laredo to Matamoros
Source: El Bravo (Matamoros), September 1, 2003. Article by Oscar
      Treviño.

      Alleged Cartel Leader Arrested, Linked to Recent Nuevo Laredo Crimes