
I drove up Wednesday afternoon with two others, and listened to AKUS (Allison Krauss and Union Station, Live) the whole way.  The traffic was very bad in San Diego, and again in San Bernardino Co.  A two hour drive slowed to three.  Once we started up Cajon Pass, we cruised.  We got to the condo about 12:30 AM.  I shared a bunk room with Fred, Armando, and Mike Salomon.
Most of us left Sunday morning, but the other condo all (except Kristi) stayed and skied another day.  Kristi (photo) had to work Monday, so she drove back with me.  We stopped at the Galen Rowell Mountain Light Gallery in Bishop and were stunned with his work.  Nearly all of us that had left that morning stopped there.  Galen and his wife were killed in a small plane crash in August.  We learned that their heirs will continue to run the gallery and produce his books and prints.  You can visit their web site and see some of his work. I bought some books for Xmas presents.  Later, we drove through Manzanar and saw the new interpretive signs and brochures.  They are turning the old High School Gym into a visitor's center.
We drove up to Tamarack Lodge and walked up the road about a mile and started to ski.  The snow was very hard and crunchy.  They had groomed it and were charging $11 to ski it, but we were headed for the back country.  We skied up a hiking trail to Emerald Lake, had lunch, and started back.  The first real ski day of the season is best kept short. I could feel the altitude.  Four of us explored a little further on a ridge that we would ski later in the trip.  We caught up with the rest of the group, and I coached Mike Salomon down the slope.  We thought he could ski because he brought randonee ski gear.  It was his first day on skis!  I showed him how to snow plow, and he became the slowest skier on the mountain.
Thursday morning we met Barbara, Sue Pease, Patty Dahl, Armando Valencia, and Mike Salomon.  Norma Schwartz and Fred Gabbard drove up with me.  Alice, Bill and Luba Belkina were driving up that morning. The other condo had a contingent from the 20s & 30s section headed by Brad Buffett.  We saw them at dinner time.
We had heavy traffic at Kramer Junction, and again in Adelanto.  The rest of the trip was smooth, and we arrived home about 7:30 PM.  It was a wonderful trip, good people, good food, and almost good snow.  See you in Utah for New Years!  Mike.
P.S.Half the 20s & 30s contingent couldn't pass up another day of skiing so Jackie (photo), Cindy, and Gregory (photo together) spent Sunday skiing on- and off-track above Tamarack Lodge.  Angela, Brad, and Jennifer started the day slowly with shopping in town but followed up with a very rewarding trip to the Mono Lake tufa towers and nearby Panum Crater.  The crater is only 600 years old and its rim is up to 600 yards across whereas the lake is thousands of years old, older even than the explosion which uncovered Mammoth Mtn.
Friday morning was our first full ski day.  We waited for the other condo, but finally realized that they were going downhill that day ($60 lift tickets at Mammoth Mtn!) (photo of minarets from mountaintop).  We drove back to Tamarack, and walked up the road again, but this time we headed west to Mammoth Pass.  We hurried through the CO2 area with its dead trees and one fatality and cheated death once again.  We climbed toward the past with several pausing to skin up.  We reached McCloud Lake at noon and enjoyed lunch in the sun.  The lake was frozen, but only Alvin risked skiing out on it.  After lunch (turkey sandwiches of course) we skied past the lake and turned north toward the back side of Mammoth Mtn.  I had never skied there and found it too be a wonderful playground of ridges, plateaus, lots of soft snow, and occasional glimpses of the Minarets and the Ritter Range. We realized that we could ski all the way around Mammoth Mtn and use the shuttle bus to get home.  Unfortunately, the weather was starting to change, so we headed east and skied down a very cool ravine to Horseshoe Lake and back the groomed road to the cars.  Everyone was very pleased that we had found yet another fine place to ski.  I have been skiing at Mammoth for about 30 years, and I find someplace new each time.
The meal was wonderful.  All you could hear was chewing and gasps of joy.  Barbara had to explain again and again how each dish was prepared.  I limited myself to one plate of food, but of course it was piled very high.  I wanted to save room for those pies!  The celebration lasted until 10, and the other condo people headed home so Patty could have her bed on the couch.
We dined that night on tasty leftovers and departed before 9am Monday (photo from Rt 395 above Bishop), unfortunately missing the Mountain Light Gallery because it opens at 10am.  Three of us did drive through Manzanar (photos: landscape, road in grove, & cemetery memorial ) and enjoyed a long lunch at Randsburg, an old mining town north of Kramer Jct.  We encountered no traffic problems and arrived in San Diego about 5pm. -Brad
There were 17 of us in two condo's and 4 more staying nearby.  Barbara drove up early Wednesday (Nov 27) so that she could bake pies and get some vegetables ready.  She had ordered two Turkey Dinner Kits from Vons, but she was going to augment them.  I have asked her to describe the menu in more detail, because it was the high point of the trip.  We ate like kings!
Dinner that night was soup and the last of the leftovers.  I can't remember Barbara's name for it, but it was souperb!  We finished the puzzle while James Bond saved the world and won the girl.
Friday dinner was Pizza from Giovani's, and lots of leftovers.  I learned on previous trips, that you didn't have to buy anymore food besides the big dinner.  The puzzle was taking form and James Bond was being chased all over the planet.  It started snowing that night, but the Weather Channel forecast only 1 inch of accumulation.  What would tomorrow bring?
We finally got back after 4 PM, and Barbara had picked up the turkeys at two.  The kitchen was in full production.  Someone noticed that we often had 9 of us in the little space.  Sweet potatoes were being peeled, string beans sliced, salad assembled and as you might have guessed, I dissected two big pomegranates for the salad.  The smell of roasting bird filled the whole condo area.  Wine bottles were opened, and the condo filled with skiers.  We opened a 1000 piece jigsaw puzzle, and the TV finally settled on the James Bond Marathon (all Bond, all the time). Barbara had been telling us that dinner would be ready about 7, and she was right on the money.  I even had time for a shower.
From Tamarack, we only had to walk a short distance before we started skiing.  Now we had almost the whole bunch, so we split into two groups.  I took the stronger skiers back to Emerald Lake for lunch (more turkey sandwiches) while the others enjoyed the Lake Mary area (photos of reflection and mood).  We all continued up the ridge in very light snowfall, and I missed the direct path over to the Duck Lake trail.  We skied along an old pack trail, and descended down a fairly steep hillside, but the snow was good, and everyone did OK.  We reached the trailhead and the groomed road right away, so we visited the Mammoth Consolidated Mine.  There are old miner's cabins, mining machinery, and the shaft with the steel bar gate to keep us out.  An easy ski back to the cars, and we were done for the day.
The Mammoth trip was lots of fun.  The snow was thin from the big storm they had on November 8, 9&10, and now it was 3 weeks later with 2 of those weeks sunny and highs in the 50's.  They had one week with lows above freezing at Mammoth Pass (9300').
Photos provided by Jackie from her digital camera; they are displayed here at 50% of their original size.
Saturday morning it was still snowing, but only the inch was on the ground, our cars, and the road.  I drove very slowly and carefully up to Tamarack without chains.  There were cars, trucks, and SUVs spun out all over the place.  I had to get around a shuttle bus that had stopped for passengers, and the oncoming traffic yielded to our frantic gestures.  I don't think I could have started up again if I had stopped.