
Kok Meng Ng pleaded guilty in Australian 
                                      court for breaching the financial transactions 
                                      act and computer crimes in connection with 
                                      Australia's first case of ATM skimming.
11. 
                                      Law and Legal Issues

                                      Daniel J. Baas has been arrested in Cincinnati 
                                      in connection with hacking into the computer 
                                      system of Acxiom and gaining access to personal 
                                      information.
Mhill Sokoli was found guilty by Belgian 
                                      court of human trafficking. He is believed 
                                      to have smuggled as many as 12,000 people 
                                      from Belgium into the UK and has been sentenced 
                                      to eight years in prison and a fine of GBP85,000.
Mexico's Zapatista rebels have created 
                                      30 new town councils to govern areas of 
                                      Chiapas in their control. With these in 
                                      place, they will withdraw from roadblocks 
                                      and stop charging fees for travel through 
                                      the region. The Mexican government has said 
                                      that it would respect the local councils 
                                      and that peace talks could be restarted.
It then describes how to implement the 
                                      Norms, in a fashion similar to that previously 
                                      used only by nation states whereby the corporation 
                                      would "adopt, disseminate, and implement 
                                      internal rules of operation", report 
                                      on their progress, and periodically be subject 
                                      to monitoring and verification by the UN.
China has discharged the last SARS patient 
                                      as it welcomes a team of experts investigating 
                                      links between animals and the virus.
The US Institute of Medicine has recommended 
                                      that the focus on smallpox preparedness 
                                      should move away from vaccinations (that 
                                      are dangerous relative to the small risk) 
                                      and towards improved coordination and response. 
                                      They also said a vaccination for the general 
                                      public is not recommended.
5. 
                                      Europe

                                      France wants a settlement with Libya for 
                                      the 1989 UTA airliner bombing that killed 
                                      170 equivalent to that reached for the Lockerbie 
                                      bombing. This demand could delay lifting 
                                      the UN sanctions against Libya.
Around the world there are a plethora of 
                                      standards and a wealth of local laws. There 
                                      are many voluntary standards for specific 
                                      industries, including many focused on working 
                                      conditions and labor rights as well as environmental 
                                      laws. For the first time, an international 
                                      body has undertaken a review of these initiatives 
                                      around the world, and has developed a set 
                                      of norms, or best practices, that can be 
                                      used to apply universally to all international 
                                      corporations.
In Germany, three businessmen have been 
                                      arrested in connection with attempted smuggling 
                                      of aluminum tubes to North Korea for its 
                                      nuclear weapons program.
The Serbian government has rejected a UN 
                                      proposal for an independent Kosovo in favor 
                                      of it joining the federation of Serbia and 
                                      Montenegro. Murders and armed attacks continue 
                                      to occur weekly in Kosovo, including a recent 
                                      atrocity in which a group of about 50 children 
                                      who were swimming in a river were sprayed 
                                      with machine gun fire. Two were killed and 
                                      four seriously wounded.
FEATURE 
                                      ARTICLE: Good Governance: Transnational 
                                      Corporations and Human Rights
Juvenal Rugambarara was arrested in Uganda 
                                      and has been transferred to the International 
                                      Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda in Tanzania. 
                                      He is charged with nine counts related to 
                                      genocide in connection with the 1994 Rwandan 
                                      genocide.
Note: Finance now incorporates narcoterrorism
An investigation into security breaches 
                                      at Windsor Castle following the "comic 
                                      terrorist" gatecrasher has found prior 
                                      security breaches and numerous security 
                                      failures, including operational flaws and 
                                      insufficient planning.
Solomon Islands warlord Harold Keke has 
                                      surrendered to the Australian-led peacekeeping 
                                      force. He is now the subject of a murder 
                                      investigation and under continual guard 
                                      to prevent possible assassination. Members 
                                      of the Malaita Eagle Force(MEF), a leading 
                                      militant group, surrendered nearly 100 weapons 
                                      in a public ceremony.
US anti-war activists who went to Iraq 
                                      before the invasion have been told that 
                                      under sanctions against Iraq, including 
                                      a travel ban, they could face penalties 
                                      of up to 12 years in jail and $1 million 
                                      in fines.
Hemant Lakhani and two alleged accomplices, 
                                      Yehuda Abraham and Moinudden Ahmed Hamid, 
                                      have been charged in US court of providing 
                                      material support to terrorists and illegal 
                                      weapons dealing.
Despite these attacks, Israel has moved 
                                      to free additional prisoners, has agreed 
                                      to turn four more West Bank cities to Palestinian 
                                      control, and will permit Yasser Arafat to 
                                      visit his sister's grave, following her 
                                      death in Gaza earlier in the week.
Saudi security forces fought a gun battle 
                                      with suspected militants, killing four policemen 
                                      and one militant. Authorities have pledged 
                                      a decisive battle against terrorism in an 
                                      operation that will include questioning 
                                      as many as 12,000 citizens.
Argentina's congress has voted to annul 
                                      laws providing amnesty for former members 
                                      of the military dictatorship of 1976-1983, 
                                      opening the way for prosecutions of human 
                                      rights abuses during the "Dirty War".
In Thailand, security officials were tipped 
                                      off to the presence of wanted Jemaah Islamiah 
                                      terrorist suspect Riduan Isamuddin "Hambali". 
                                      Assisted by the US Central Intelligence 
                                      Agency, he was arrested and taken into US 
                                      custody at a secret location.
3. 
                                      Americas

                                      Argentina's congress has voted to annul 
                                      laws providing amnesty for former members 
                                      of the military dictatorship of 1976-1983, 
                                      opening the way for prosecutions of human 
                                      rights abuses during the "Dirty War".
Philippines President Gloria Arroyo has 
                                      lifted the "state of rebellion" 
                                      declared after the military mutiny in July. 
                                      More than 300 soldiers have now been charged 
                                      in connection with the failed mutiny.
The Israeli parliament's July passage of 
                                      a marriage law that prevents Palestinians 
                                      married to Israelis from gaining citizenship 
                                      or residency rights has raised widespread 
                                      criticism, and has been called a violation 
                                      of international human rights law.
Violent incidents in Israel and the occupied 
                                      territories continue to put the roadmap 
                                      peace process at risk. There were two Palestinian 
                                      suicide attacks: in Israel, the al Aqsa 
                                      Martyrs Brigade bomber killed himself and 
                                      one other, injuring ten. Outside a Jewish 
                                      settlement in the West Bank, the Hamas-affiliated 
                                      bomber and one Israeli were killed. Israeli 
                                      troops demolished the home of one of the 
                                      bombers and entered the West Bank city of 
                                      Hebron to search for the local leader of 
                                      Islamic Jihad's armed wing, Mohammed Seder. 
                                      Seder was killed in the attack and Islamic 
                                      Jihad has vowed revenge.
Chile's main trade union federation, the 
                                      600,000 member Central Workers Unit (CUT), 
                                      went on strike for improved working conditions 
                                      and benefits. It was the first national 
                                      strike since the end of military rule, almost 
                                      20 years ago. Police used tear gas and water 
                                      canon to disperse demonstrators, broke up 
                                      a 3,000 person march, intervened in a riot 
                                      and arrested 130 people.
Additional Resources:
All Afghan refugees six years of age or 
                                      more will now undergo compulsory iris scanning 
                                      during repatriation to try to limit abuses 
                                      in which multiple family assistance packages 
                                      were claimed against the same child.
Financial Times feature on Military Outsourcing, 
                                      August 11 and 12 http://www.ft.com/military
Poor governance is one of the major contributing 
                                      factors to the emergence of terrorism and 
                                      political violence, and the systems that 
                                      support them. Efforts to improve governance 
                                      have largely focused on political institutions, 
                                      but increasingly the role of corporations 
                                      has come to the forefront.
Robert Naylor, Benjamin Wilson and James 
                                      Patrick Moloney have been charged in British 
                                      court under the Terrorism Act with weapons 
                                      violations and having money for terrorism.
And then proceeds to describe these rights 
                                      and obligations:
                                      * Right to Equal Opportunity and Non-Discriminatory 
                                      Treatment
                                      * Right to Security of Persons
                                      * Rights of Workers
                                      * Respect for National Sovereignty and Human 
                                      Rights
                                      * Obligations with regard to Consumer Protection
                                      * Obligations with regard to Environmental 
                                      Protection
Paul Findley "Silent No More: Confronting 
                                      America's False Images of Islam" Amana 
                                      Publications
8. 
                                      Cyberterrorism and Information Warfare
Paul Farmer, "Pathologies of Power: 
                                      Health, Human Rights, and the New War on 
                                      the Poor" University of California 
                                      Press
The Blaster ("Lovesan") worm 
                                      that infects most versions of Microsoft 
                                      Windows infected more than 385,000 computers. 
                                      Two variants, Blaster-B and Blaster-C have 
                                      also been identified. For details see Internet 
                                      Storm Center 
http://isc.sans.org/dairy.html?date=2003-08-11
9. 
                                      Finance

                                      The US Office of Foreign Assets Control 
                                      (OFAC) has listed the National Council of 
                                      Resistance of Iran (Mujahedin-E Khalq, MEK 
                                      et al) as a global terrorist organization. 
                                      It has also expanded the list of prohibited 
                                      persons in connection with sanctions against 
                                      Burma.
Paraguay's President Luis Gonzalez Macchi 
                                      has handed over power to his successor, 
                                      Nicanor Duarte. Macchi has been prohibited 
                                      from leaving the country; he faces charges 
                                      of embezzlement.
Although moving away from voluntary industry 
                                      initiatives and clearly meant to be binding 
                                      on the corporations, it is not clear what 
                                      force of law the Norms would have, although 
                                      they do provide guidance for more binding 
                                      steps in the future. Despite this lack of 
                                      force, the recommendations will provide 
                                      more support to those companies already 
                                      complying with global standards and will 
                                      put more pressure on those that do not. 
                                      For those companies sitting on the fence, 
                                      fearing compliance could be a competitive 
                                      disadvantage, this is likely to push them 
                                      towards adoption. They also provide a universal 
                                      norm that will help close cross-border loopholes 
                                      and support local enforcement efforts.
12. 
                                      Transportation 

                                      The investigation and arrest of Hemant Lakhani 
                                      and two alleged accomplices in connection 
                                      with smuggling an anti-aircraft missile 
                                      to be used against a commercial US aircraft 
                                      has again raised fears over this threat 
                                      to aviation. Most airports use predictable 
                                      approaches that are highly susceptible to 
                                      this form of attack. A failed attempt was 
                                      seen recently in the failed attack coinciding 
                                      with the Kenyan hotel bombing.
When the power went out in New York City 
                                      and large parts of the northeast and midwest, 
                                      the first question answered was that there 
                                      was no evidence of terrorist involvement. 
                                      The cause of the blackout, affecting some 
                                      50 million people, has not yet been determined, 
                                      but has raised questions about the stability 
                                      and security of this sector of the critical 
                                      infrastructure. Telecommunications including 
                                      the internet were virtually unaffected by 
                                      the outage.
Ronit Matalon, transl Jessica Cohen, "Bliss" 
                                      (novel) Metropolitan/Henry Holt
Robert Baer, "Sleeping with the Devil: 
                                      How Washington Sold Our Soul for Saudi Crude" 
                                      Brown
It was also a violent week in the India, 
                                      as separatist groups protested independence 
                                      day celebrations. In the state of Tripura, 
                                      the separatist rebel All Tripura Tiger Force 
                                      (ATTF) claimed responsibility for a landmine 
                                      that killed five. Another attack at the 
                                      end of the week killed 30 villagers. Assam 
                                      separatists clashed with government troops, 
                                      killing six rebels. In Manipur, a bomb on 
                                      a bridge killed six bus passengers.
13. 
                                      Weapons of Mass Destruction

                                      In China, construction workers came upon 
                                      five metal drums that they cut into pieces 
                                      and sold to a recycling facility. At least 
                                      36 people, including the construction workers 
                                      and others who came into contact with the 
                                      barrels, became seriously ill. The drums 
                                      had contained chemicals, probably mustard 
                                      gas that had been left by Japanese troops 
                                      after World War II. Japan has sent a medical 
                                      team to help and will also dispose of the 
                                      chemicals.
NATO has now assumed control of peacekeeping 
                                      in Afghanistan. This is NATO's first operation 
                                      outside of Europe.
Lebanon and Syria are concerned over the 
                                      escalation of tension in the Levant. In 
                                      southern Lebanon, Israeli aircraft attacked 
                                      suspected Hezbollah positions in retaliation 
                                      over shells fired to northern Israel that 
                                      killed a teenage boy. Hezbollah had reacted 
                                      to the death of a Hezbollah militant and 
                                      continued overflights by Israeli forces.
In the US, the scandals surrounding the 
                                      collapse of corporate giants Enron, WorldCom 
                                      and others have led to new legislation to 
                                      attempt to forestall future such collapses 
                                      and to punish the perpetrators. The Sarbonnes-Oxley 
                                      Act is particularly focused on corporate 
                                      governance. In addition, transnational criminal 
                                      cases have begun to open the way towards 
                                      not just extradition but to cooperation 
                                      and in some cases an implicit acceptance 
                                      of the concept of universal jurisdiction 
                                      applied to multinational crimes. Argentina's 
                                      recent efforts to lift immunity of those 
                                      involved in the "dirty war" and 
                                      cooperate with Spanish and French authorities 
                                      is one example. Another is the case of Unicol, 
                                      in which a US court recently ruled that 
                                      a case brought against it for human rights 
                                      abuses in Burma would move forward.
Colombian President Alvaro Uribe, after 
                                      meeting with US military officials reviewing 
                                      the effects of US military aid, has increased 
                                      pressure on the army to perform better in 
                                      their fight against left-wing rebels. The 
                                      largest rebel group, the Revolutionary Armed 
                                      Forces of Colombia (FARC) has undertaken 
                                      a series of deadly car bombings. In these 
                                      and armed clashes, more than a dozen people 
                                      were killed last week, including three FARC 
                                      guerillas and seven United Self-Defense 
                                      Forces (AUC) paramilitaries.
The US federal bank and thrift regulatory 
                                      agencies issued proposed guidance for identity 
                                      theft protection and have requested public 
                                      comment. http://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/press/bcreg/2003/20030812/
4. 
                                      Asia Pacific

                                      The Pacific Forum has elected Australian 
                                      Greg Unwin as the new secretary general, 
                                      an appointment normally given to one of 
                                      the small island states. There has been 
                                      concern that Australian proposals for regional 
                                      efforts to combat money laundering, terrorism, 
                                      poverty and so on could compromise sovereignty 
                                      of smaller countries.
Armando Valencia Cornelio and seven associates 
                                      were arrested in Mexico on suspicion of 
                                      drug trafficking. He was wanted in both 
                                      Mexico and the US, and is suspected of involvement 
                                      in a third of drug shipments to the US as 
                                      well as links to Colombian operations. He 
                                      will be tried in Mexico prior to any possible 
                                      extradition to the US.
It has now been one year since Medicins 
                                      Sans Frontieres worker Arjan Erkel was kidnapped 
                                      by gunmen in Dagestan, Russia, a situation 
                                      blamed on lack of involvement by Russian 
                                      authorities.
Northern Ireland has commemorated the fifth 
                                      anniversary of the Omagh bombing with new 
                                      hopes of recognition for the victims now 
                                      that sufficient funding has been raised 
                                      to pursue a civilian case. 
http://www.terrorismcentral.com/Library/Incidents/OmaghBombing/OmaghBombList.html
http://www.terrorismcentral.com/Newsletters/2002/021002.html#FeatureArticle
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf has 
                                      called for a ceasefire along the Line of 
                                      Control separating Kashmir. Border incidents 
                                      in Pakistan continue, with two Pakistani 
                                      soldiers killed by US troops operating at 
                                      the Afghan border. In the north, a shootout 
                                      with suspected al Qaeda members killed one 
                                      man.
Chileans tortured under Pinochet's military 
                                      regime will receive compensation from the 
                                      government that previously had been provided 
                                      only to families of those killed. Pinochet's 
                                      dictatorship was in power from 1973-1990.
Abdelghani Mzoudi is on trial in Germany, 
                                      charged with 3,066 counts of an accessory 
                                      to murder in connection with the September 
                                      11 attacks in the US and accused of membership 
                                      in al Qaeda and providing support to members 
                                      of the Hamburg terrorist cell that carried 
                                      out the hijackings. Mzoudi is the second 
                                      person to be tried in Germany in connection 
                                      with the attacks on the US.
Australia's first case of ATM skimming 
                                      has ended in the guilty plea of Kok Meng 
                                      Ng, charged with financial transactions 
                                      act and computer crimes.
6. 
                                      Middle East

                                      Bahraini investigators researching the fate 
                                      of ten people missing in Iraq since 1991 
                                      have declared them dead.
Donald Kagan "The Peloponnesian War" 
                                      Viking
Anthony Perry Jensen was acquitted at the 
                                      High Court of Fez in Morocco of charges 
                                      associated with the May suicide bomb attacks 
                                      and of involvement in the Islamic militant 
                                      organization Salafia Jihadia. He was sentenced 
                                      to four months in prison for improper registration 
                                      of his marriage.
British authorities have been on high alert 
                                      following a threat of an imminent al Qaeda 
                                      suicide attack. A simulated terrorist attack 
                                      against the London Underground is planned 
                                      for September 7.
Joseph W. Eaton "Privacy Card: A Low 
                                      Cost Strategy to Combat Terrorism" 
                                      (re-issue) Rowman and Littlefield
Iran may put some al Qaeda suspects on 
                                      trial but has no intention of allowing the 
                                      US to interrogate those it has in custody, 
                                      although it may repatriate Saudis. Government 
                                      attempts to remove legal and social inequalities 
                                      against women have been rejected by the 
                                      hardline Guardian Council. The Iranian government 
                                      is proceeding to the second development 
                                      phase of its nuclear power plant and is 
                                      planning for a second.
Taiwanese authorities, acting on a request 
                                      from the US, boarded a North Korean ship 
                                      and seized barrels of phosphorus pentasulfide. 
                                      It is an ordinary chemical used to manufacture 
                                      insecticide and as a fuel additive, but 
                                      could also potentially be used in chemical 
                                      weapons production.
In Indian-administered Kashmir, the militant 
                                      Freedom Force set of an explosive device 
                                      near a restaurant, killing at least 45. 
                                      In a separate grenade attack on an Indian 
                                      army vehicle, one civilian died.
The American Bar Association has called 
                                      for the US Congress and White House to ensure 
                                      defendants at military tribunals have adequate 
                                      access to civilian attorneys. To date, minimal 
                                      changes have been made in the rules of the 
                                      military tribunals, which currently provide 
                                      for a military officer to act for the defense 
                                      and grant no confidentiality. Discussions 
                                      regarding the British detainees at Guantanamo 
                                      Bay have continued.
The guidelines describe these general obligations:
                                      "States have the primary responsibility 
                                      to promote, secure the fulfilment of, respect, 
                                      ensure respect of, and protect human rights 
                                      recognized in international as well as national 
                                      law, including assuring that transnational 
                                      corporations and other business enterprises 
                                      respect human rights. Within their respective 
                                      spheres of activity and influence, transnational 
                                      corporations and other business enterprises 
                                      have the obligation to promote, secure the 
                                      fulfilment of, respect, ensure respect of, 
                                      and protect human rights recognized in international 
                                      as well as national law".
Indonesia plans to tighten internal security 
                                      law to prevent further terrorist attacks. 
                                      Another victim of last week's Marriott Hotel 
                                      bombing has died, increasing the death toll 
                                      to 11. Ten people have been arrested in 
                                      connection with the explosion and Indonesia 
                                      remains in a heightened state of alert.
Detention policies in the UK and Australia 
                                      were criticized last week. In the UK, the 
                                      chief inspector of prisons has called for 
                                      an end to long-term detention of children 
                                      in immigration removal centers. The high 
                                      Court of Australia ruled that indefinite 
                                      mandatory detention is unlawful.
7. 
                                      South Asia

                                      Afghanistan saw its bloodiest 24-hours in 
                                      more than a year as 61 people were killed 
                                      and dozens wounded in violent attacks across 
                                      the country, including factional fighting, 
                                      battles with Taliban and al Qaeda, and a 
                                      bus bomb that killed 15 people. Attacks 
                                      against aid workers and Afghan soldiers 
                                      forced the closure of missions in Helmland 
                                      and Kandahar provinces. More forces are 
                                      required to secure Afghanistan outside of 
                                      Kabul.
The organization that has undertaken this 
                                      is the United Nations Sub-commission for 
                                      the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights. 
                                      This expert panel is a subsidiary of the 
                                      Commission on Human Rights and was established 
                                      in 1947. Its 26 members undertake studies 
                                      related to the Universal Declaration of 
                                      Human Rights and makes recommendations for 
                                      protecting these rights.
10. 
                                      Human Rights

                                      The UN Sub-commission on the Promotion and 
                                      Protection of Human Rights has adopted a 
                                      resolution regarding the effects of measures 
                                      to combat terrorism on human rights. They 
                                      called for all countries to ensure that 
                                      anti-terrorism measures complied with obligations 
                                      under international human rights laws.
14. 
                                      Recently Published
At their 55th session, meeting last week, 
                                      the Sub-commission unanimously approved 
                                      the "Norms on the Responsibilities 
                                      of Transnational Corporations and Other 
                                      Business Enterprises with Regard to Human 
                                      Rights (E/CN.4/Sub.2/2003/L.8)" and 
                                      will transmit them to the Commission on 
                                      Human Rights for its consideration and adoption. 
                                      Only after adoption by the full commission 
                                      will the new rules begin to apply.
Australia will renew cooperation with Indonesian 
                                      special forces Kopassus unit, despite its 
                                      association with atrocities in East Timor 
                                      in 1999. Cooperation with Indonesia is of 
                                      particular interest now that al Qaeda has 
                                      taken responsibility for the Marriott Hotel 
                                      bomb last week and in its communication 
                                      singled out Australia as a particular target.
Riduan Isamuddin ("Hambali") 
                                      was arrested in Thailand in a joint operation 
                                      between Thai authorities and the US Central 
                                      Intelligence Agency. Hambali is alleged 
                                      to be the operational head of Jemaah Islamiah 
                                      and connected to al Qaeda.
Joynal Hazari, a Bangladeshi opposition 
                                      politician of the Awami League, has been 
                                      sentenced in absentia to life in prison 
                                      for possession of weapons and ammunition.