
John Kennedy:  Liberal Martyr?
Dealey Plaza
What about those witnesses?  Didn't everyone hear shots from the Grassy Knoll?  What about the Tague wounding?   Who was the 
"Umbrella Man?"  Was the rifle recovered really a Mauser?   Does "acoustic evidence" show a shot from the Grassy Knoll?  Were the Three Tramps suspicious?  How could Kennedy's head go "back and to the left?"
Oliver Stone's Movie "JFK"
We expect Hollywood movies to take some liberties with the historical record.  But what do we think when Hollywood turns history on its head?  Oliver Stone wants to overturn the verdict in the Clay Shaw trial.  The jury found that District Attorney Jim Garrison had no case — so Stone invents a case on celluloid.  Just how honest was Oliver Stone, Shaw's Hollywood prosecutor?
If you are like most Americans, you believe that a conspiracy killed 
Kennedy.   And if you are like most Americans, you have heard a vast number of bogus factoids about the case.
Bogus Evidence
Did you know that all the evidence in this case  proven 
to be forged has been on the conspiracy side?  One key piece originated with the KGB! Did you know that 
the "mysterious deaths" are virtually all not so "mysterious" when you 
look at them closely?  Do you trust authors like Mark Lane to tell you the 
truth about what witnesses said?
Lee Harvey Oswald
What sort of person was he?  Did he really have "Top Secret" security 
clearance?  Did he shoot at General Walker?  Were there two Oswalds? If Oswald shot Kennedy, what was his motive? Was the man exhumed 
in 1981 really somebody besides Oswald?
John Kennedy:  Liberal Martyr?

For some in the conspiracy crowd, John Kennedy was a liberal saint, who was going to implement policies that would bring America into a new Utopia.  So, of course, a threatened Power Elite had to kill him.  Was Kennedy the kind of left liberal who threatened established interests?  Was he a hero of Civil Rights?  Had he decided to pull out of Vietnam?  Historian Eric Paddon dissects these claims in a series of essays based on his posts on the Internet.
This web site is dedicated to debunking the mass of misinformation and disinformation surrounding the murder of JFK.  If you are believer in Oswald as a lone gunman, you are likely to enjoy this web site, since most of that misinformation and disinformation has come from conspiracists.  But if you are a sophisticated conspiracist, you likely understand that the mass of silly nonsense in conspiracy books and documentaries does no service to the cause of truth in the assassination, and simply buries the "case for conspiracy" under layers of bunk.
Medical Evidence
Did the bullet that hit Kennedy in the back penetrate only an inch and fall 
out?  Was Kennedy hit in the head by a bullet from in front?  Are the 
autopsy photos and x-rays faked?  Did all the doctors at Parkland 
Hospital believe that Kennedy was hit in the front of the neck, and if 
so, are their opinions decisive evidence that that is what happened?  Was the back of Kennedy's head blown out?  Are the autopsy photos faked?
The Single Bullet Theory
You've seen Kevin Costner give the conspiracy version of the Single Bullet 
theory.  You know:  Connally seated directly in front of Kennedy, at the same 
height, and facing straight ahead.  Was that really what happened?
run by Peter Fokes and John McAdams, is the place to go — whether you are a "newbie" with questions to ask, or a researcher with some evidence you want to present to the research community.
Release the Documents!

This has long been the cry of the conspiracy theorists.   Supposedly, the documents show that a conspiracy killed Kennedy.  In fact, the government in the 1990s released a massive number of documents.  The Assassination Records Review Board had a mandate to identify and oversee the release of documents in government hands, and in private hands.
Regardless of what you believe, several web sites, mostly conspiracy-oriented 
are worth checking out.  And you may also want to check out my list of recommended books on the assassination.
Jack Ruby
The "lone nut" theory of the assassination is really the "two lone nuts" theory.  What sort of
person was Jack Ruby?  A mobster?  An intelligence agent?  A small-time hustler?
The sort of volatile character who might really have shot Oswald out of righteous anger?
Jim Garrison and New Orleans
Did Oswald really share an office with Guy Banister?  Did Clay Shaw really 
use the alias "Clay Bertrand?"  Why did Oliver Stone make a movie about the 
Shaw trial and not even mention Perry Raymond Russo?  Did David Ferrie 
die a "mysterious death?"  What about Jim Garrison and the Mafia?
I don't necessarily agree with all the conclusions these authors have drawn, but everything here is a solid piece of work that deserves your attention. All are copyrighted, and all posted here with permission.
Did Oswald Have a Girlfriend in New Orleans?

A woman named Judyth Baker has come forward claiming to have been Oswald's adulterous lover in in summer of 1963, to have participated with him in a secret bioweapons program aimed at killing Castro, and to have inside knowledge of Oswald's "patsy" role in the assassination.  It's a good story, and she got a chance to tell it on the History Channel in November 2003.  But is it the truth?
What sort of evidence is there?


The Assassination Context

What we think about the assassination is dependent on what we think about history, and about the behavior of government officials and bureaucrats.  Was Kennedy a radical who threatened the status quo?  Did top administration officials order a coverup of a conspiracy soon after the assassination?  If the FBI and the CIA withhold documents, does this mean that they are protecting assassination conspirators?
Hear History Happen
Recording devices monitored the two radio channels used by the Dallas Police Department, and these recordings are a vivid "real time" account of the frenzy of activity that followed the shooting.  Here are selected audio clips beginning a couple of minutes before the assassination and ending with the arrest of Oswald in the Texas Theatre.
Assassination Logic

Some notions about logic, probability and statistics necessarily underlie all discussion of "conspiracy" or "lone assassin."  Does the lone assassination theory involve too many implausible "coincidences?"  Are there a suspicious number of "connections" between various figures in the case?  Is the Single Bullet Theory highly "improbable?"

Assassination Witnesses

It writings about the assassination, as in real-world criminal justice, witness testimony looms large.  But just how reliable are the witnesses?  How many witnesses are just flat out telling tall tales?  How often are apparently sober and reliable witnesses just flat wrong?