
No.  There is no way, not so much because of his character 



but, .. because of his health....  John Kennedy had 



Addison's disease (a withering of the adrenal glands), 



which was a terminal disease until maintenance treatment 



was discovered in 1940.  That year, before Kennedy knew he 



had the illness, a British doctor discovered that it could 



be treated with cortisone, which would replace 



adrenaline... The cortisone was extremely expensive at the 



beginning, and the Kennedys kept quantities of the drug in 



safety deposit boxes around the world.  Until artificial 



cortisone was developed years later, only a rich person 



could survive on the regime that JFK did -- day by day for 



the rest of his life.
In addition to that, he had a degenerative back problem 



that had nothing to do with football or the war -- those 



campaign stories were not true.  It was a birth defect, and 



it was so bad that at a point in 1954, when he was a 



senator, he gambled on surgery in New York Hospital. He 



was told he probably would not survive because trauma 



triggers Addison's episodes.  No Addisonian had ever 



survived traumatic surgery.  But the back pain was so 



great, he said he would rather die than live with it.  He 



did survive the operation, though he was in the hospital 



for nine months afterward.  That bit of medical history was 



significant enough that the Journal of the American Medical 



Association, in November 1955, ran a report without names 



on Kennedy's operation.  The patient was identified as "the 



37-year-old man."  But anybody who knew his history, knew 



that John Kennedy was the thirty-seven-year-old man....
Could a person of Kennedy's character survive the kind 



of political climate that now exists?
Kennedy controlled every person who came in contact with him.  He was a Brueghel in the sense that he created a world of his own, but instead of squeezing oil paint, he squeezed people to create his own personal world. He was at the center of all he surveyed.  He enjoyed using people, and setting them against each other for his own amusement. He lived life as a race against boredom.
Robert Louis Stevenson once said that politics is perhaps 



the only profession for which no preparation is considered 



necessary.  It was true then -- it's true now.  And John 



Kennedy has something to do with that.  Whatever one thinks 



of him as a political figure, John Kennedy was a soaring 



cultural figure.  On a level, I think, with the Picassos, 



the Freuds, the artists and scholars who change the way we 



look at things.  And the most significant thing about John 



Kennedy, transcending politics, was this: he did not wait 



his turn.  And now, no one does.  Part of that was because 



he thought he would die young -- and he had to make his move 



the first chance he got.  He went after the presidency out 



of turn and essentially destroyed the old system of 



selecting presidents.
In the five years after that, and all the years after that, 



John Kennedy always denied that he had Addison's disease.  



But in fact, there was a public record that could have 



revealed his lie.  No one in the press ever put two and two 



together.  In the political and journalistic climate today 



he could not have hidden that information and thus could 



not have become a candidate, much less President of the 



United States....
There certainly were.  John Kennedy did not think that the 



rules applied to him and he did whatever he could get away 



with, including getting into the U.S. Navy without a 



physical examination, since there was no way he could have 



passed any standard medical examination.  He sensed, 



correctly, I think, that if he did not participate in World 



War II, in the great adventure, the great shared experience 



of his generation, then he was not going to have much of a 



public life in this country.  So he wanted in. But, of 



course, to have a man with such frail health as his was as 



your commander could be dangerous; the John Kennedy who got 



to be commander of a PT-109 never should have 



been there.  However, when PT-109 was run down by a 



Japanese destroyer, the lieutenant who never should have 



been there swam six miles holding the belt, in his teeth, 



of a badly burned man named Pappy McNulty, and saved his 



life -- and then went back into the dark Pacific to try to 



save others.  He lost his boat, but saved most of his 



crew...
Were there ever aspects of his character at war with 



each other?