
Kennedy in film
Kennedy's other decorations in World War II included the Purple Heart, Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal, and
the World War II Victory Medal. He was honorably discharged in early 1945,
just a few months before Japan surrendered. The incident was popularized when he became president,
and would be the subject of several magazine articles, books, comic books, TV specials and a feature length movie, making the
PT-109 one of the most famous U.S. Navy ships of the war. Scale models and even G.I. Joe
figures based on the incident were still being produced in the 2000s. The coconut which was used to scrawl a rescue message given
to Solomon Islander scouts who found him was kept on his presidential desk
and is still at the John F. Kennedy library.
On March 14, 1967, Kennedy's body was moved to a permanent
burial place and memorial at Arlington National Cemetery. Kennedy is buried
with his wife and their deceased minor children; his brother Robert is also buried nearby. His grave is lit with an
"Eternal Flame". Kennedy and William
Howard Taft are the only two U.S. Presidents buried at Arlington.
Early Life
What Kennedy accomplished was not as important as what he symbolized. He enjoyed unique appeal for the emerging Third World. As the African magazine Transition expressed it, murdered with Kennedy was "the first real chance for an intelligent and new leadership in the world. His death leaves us unprepared and in darkness."
Kennedy was born in Brookline, Mass., on May 29, 1917. He was the second son of business executive and financier Joseph P. Kennedy and Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy. His great-grandfather had emigrated in 1850 from Ireland to Boston, where he worked as a cooper. His paternal grandfather had served in the Massachusetts Legislature and in elective offices in Boston. Kennedy's maternal grandfather, John Francis Fitzgerald, had been a state legislator, mayor of Boston, and U.S. congressman. Kennedy's father served as ambassador to Great Britain (1937-1940), having been chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission and of the U.S. Maritime Commission. Thus Kennedy was born into a wealthy family oriented toward politics and public service.
Although happy that he could do something about "the problems that bedeviled us," Kennedy was aware that his razor-thin victory had narrowed his options. Congress was unyielding - it had seen presidents come and go, and it distrusted Kennedy's youth and wit and gaiety. Kennedy was never able to "escape the congressional arithmetic." Unlike his successor, Lyndon B. Johnson, Kennedy had no past political favors to draw upon. Therefore, most of his program - tax reform, civil rights, a Medicare system, and the establishment of a department of urban affairs - bogged down in Congress. Ironically, his education bill was defeated largely through the efforts of the Roman Catholic hierarchy.
In 1956 Kennedy sought the Democratic vice presidential nomination. He made the presidential nominating speech for Adlai Stevenson, of Illinois, who was nominated for a second time to run against Dwight D. Eisenhower. Despite a vigorous effort, Kennedy lost the vice presidential nomination to Senator Estes Kefauver, of Tennessee.

In hopes of overthrowing the leftist Castro regime, Kennedy and his young cabinet drew the Bay of Pigs operation. U.S. trained
Cuban insurgents would invade Cuba and instigate the Cuban people in hopes of achieving their goal. On April 17, 1961, Kennedy gave orders allowing the previously planned invasion of
Cuba to proceed. With support from the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), in
what is known as the Bay of Pigs Invasion, 1,500 U.S.-trained Cuban exiles, called
"Brigade 2506", returned to the island in the hope of deposing Fidel Castro. However, the
CIA proceeded to allow the troops to go even though Kennedy did not authorize air support. By April
19, Castro's government had captured or killed most of the invading exiles and Kennedy was forced to negotiate for the
release of the 1,189 survivors. After 20 months, Cuba released the captured exiles in exchange for
$53 million worth of food and medicine. The incident was a major embarrassment for Kennedy, but he took full personal
responsibility for the debacle. Furthermore, the incident made Castro wary of the U.S. and untrusting, leading him to believe
that another invasion such as that one would occur. [8]
Kennedy's civil rights bills bogged down in Congress. Civil rights was the President's foremost domestic concern. When the showdown came, "the Kennedys," as the President and his brother Robert, the attorney general, shamed southern governors. They sent 600 Federal marshals to Alabama in 1961 to protect the "Freedom Riders." In 1962 they forced Mississippi's governor, Ross Barnett, to send his troopers back to the state university, while dispatching hundreds of Federal marshals into an all-night battle to protect the right of one African American student to attend the university.
Once in office Kennedy drafted a series of ambitious measures that were collectively entitled the New Frontier. These policies included expanding the space program, instituting civil rights legislation, aiding education, improving the tax system, and providing medical care for older citizens through the Social Security program. Most of the New Frontier programs failed to make it through a Congress dominated by southern Democratic leadership, but many were enacted by President Johnson following Kennedy's assassination.
Cohen, Avner. Israel and the Bomb. New York: Columbia University Press, 1998.
As a Congressman from Massachusetts (1947–53), Jack Kennedy consistently supported the domestic programs of the Truman administration but criticized its China policy. In 1952, despite the Eisenhower landslide, he defeated Henry Cabot Lodge for a seat in the U.S. Senate, where he served on the Labor and Public Welfare and Foreign Relations committees. In 1953, Kennedy married Jacqueline Lee Bouvier (see Onassis, Jacqueline Kennedy). While recuperating in 1955 from an operation to repair a spinal problem, one of the many serious and often extremely painful illnesses that plagued him from childhood until his death, he wrote Profiles in Courage (1956). The book dealt with American political leaders who defied public opinion to vote according to their consciences; for this work (later revealed to have been written in part by Theodore Sorensen and others) he received the Pulitzer Prize. Although Kennedy narrowly lost the Democratic vice-presidential nomination in 1956, his overwhelming reelection as Senator in 1958 helped him toward the goal of presidential candidacy.
Troubled by the long-term dangers of radioactive contamination and
nuclear weapons proliferation, Kennedy pushed for the adoption of a Limited or
Partial Test Ban Treaty, which prohibited atomic testing on the ground, in the
atmosphere, or underwater, but did not prohibit testing underground. The United States, the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union
were the initial signatories to the treaty. Kennedy signed the treaty into law in August 1963.
John F. Kennedy once summed up his time as "very dangerous, untidy." He was the child of two world wars, of the Great Depression, and of the nuclear age. "Life is unfair," he remarked. And so it was to Kennedy, heaping him with glory, burdening him with tragedy. Yet, he never lost his grace, his sense of balance, or his indomitable gaiety.
On Sept. 12, 1953, Kennedy married Jacqueline Lee Bouvier, daughter of a New York City financier, at Newport, R. I. Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., noted of Mrs. Kennedy that "under a veil of lovely inconsequence" she possessed "an all-seeing eye and ruthless judgment." Four children were born, of whom two survived infancy: Caroline Bouvier and John Fitzgerald.
John Fitzgerald Kennedy was the thirty-fifth president of the United States, serving from 1961 until his assassination in 1963. Though his administration had few legislative accomplishments, Kennedy energized the United States by projecting idealism, youth, and vigor.

See also 
Elections: 1960; Roman Catholic Church. For events during Kennedy's administration, see 
Bay of Pigs Invasion; Civil Rights Movement; Middle East-U.S. Relations; Peace Corps; Space Program; Vietnam War.
Under simultaneous and opposing pressures from the Allies and the Soviets, Germany was divided. The Berlin Wall separated the
West and East Berlin, the latter being under the control of the Soviets. On June 26,
1963, Kennedy visited West Berlin and gave a public speech
criticizing communism. Kennedy used the construction of the Berlin Wall as an example of the
failures of communism: "Freedom has many difficulties and democracy is not perfect, but we have never had to put a wall up to keep our people in." The speech is known
for its famous phrase "Ich bin ein Berliner". Nearly 5/6th of the population
were on the street when Kennedy said that famous phrase. He remarked to aides afterwards: "We'll never have another day like this
one." {(trueman,C.). (2003). Berlin Wall. History learning site. 10/31/06.}
Kennedy called his domestic program the "New Frontier". It ambitiously promised federal
funding for education, medical care for the elderly, and
government intervention to halt the recession. Kennedy also promised an end to racial
discrimination. In 1963, he proposed a tax reform which included income
tax cuts, but this was not passed by Congress until 1964, after his death. Few of Kennedy's
major programs passed Congress during his lifetime, although, under his successor Lyndon Johnson, Congress did vote them through
in 1964-65.
A series of televised debates with Nixon was crucial. Kennedy "clobbered" the Republican leader with his "style." Skeptical and laconic, careless and purposeful, Kennedy displayed wit, love of language, and a sense of the past. On November 9 Kennedy became the youngest man in American history to win the presidency and the only Roman Catholic to do so. The election was one of the closest in the nation's history; his popular margin was only 119,450 votes. On December 19 the electoral college cast 303 votes for Kennedy and 219 for Nixon.

In Southeast Asia the Kennedy administration perceived a growing Communist threat to the South Vietnamese government; it steadily increased the number of U.S. military advisers in South Vietnam and for the first time placed U.S. troops in combat situations. As disaffection in South Vietnam grew, moreover, the United States involved itself in political maneuvering and finally connived at the overthrow (Oct., 1963) of the corrupt South Vietnamese dictator, Ngo Dinh Diem (see Vietnam War). Within the Western Hemisphere, Kennedy established (1961) the Alliance for Progress, which provided economic assistance to Latin American countries. He also initiated the Peace Corps program, which sent U.S. volunteers to work in developing countries.


That day - Nov. 22, 1963 - Kennedy was assassinated by a lone sharpshooter, Lee Harvey Oswald, who fired on Kennedy's motorcade with a rifle equipped with a telescopic lens. Within hours, that "live, electric" figure was dead. Gone was all that brilliance and wit and purpose. In Indonesia, flags were lowered to half-mast; in New Delhi, India, crowds wept in the streets; in Washington, D.C., "grief was an agony."
In the spring of 1941, Kennedy volunteered for the U.S. Army but was rejected,
mainly because of his troublesome back. Nevertheless, in September of that year, the U.S.
Navy accepted him, due to the influence of the director of the Office of
Naval Intelligence (ONI), a former naval attaché to Ambassador Joseph Kennedy. As an
ensign, he served in the office which supplied bulletins and briefing information for the
Secretary of the Navy. It was during this assignment that the
attack on Pearl Harbor occurred. He attended the Naval Reserve Officers Training
School and Motor Torpedo Boat Squadron Training Center before being assigned for duty in Panama
and eventually the Pacific theater. He participated in various commands in
the Pacific theater and earned the rank of lieutenant, commanding a patrol torpedo (PT) boat.[4]
John Fitzgerald Kennedy (May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963), also referred to as John F. Kennedy, JFK,
John Kennedy or Jack Kennedy, was the 35th President of the United
States. He served from 1961 until his assassination in 1963. His
leadership during the ramming of his USS PT-109 during World War II led to being cited for bravery and heroism in the South Pacific. Kennedy represented Massachusetts during 1947–1960, as both a member of the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S.
Senate. He was elected President in 1960 in one of the
closest elections in American history. He is, to date, the only Roman Catholic to
be elected President of the United States.
Assassination

According to Kennedy's biographer Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., Vietnam "was his great failure." Certainly it consumed more of his time than any other problem. Kennedy had inherited the commitment, but he stepped up the conflict, despite his assertion that "full-scale war in Vietnam … was unthinkable." Kennedy had opposed the French military operations in Algeria and was aware of Gen. Douglas MacArthur's and Eisenhower's warnings against a land war in Asia. Yet he tripled American forces in Vietnam at a time when South Vietnamese troops greatly outnumbered the enemy. Why? Senator William Fulbright has suggested that Kennedy put troops in Vietnam to prove to Khrushchev that "he couldn't be intimidated."
The Senate
Kennedy also made some timid diplomatic efforts aimed at resolving the Palestinian refugee problem. He dispatched Joseph E. Johnson to the region in 1961 and 1962 to develop a plan aimed at making progress on the issue, under the aegis of the United Nations Conciliation Commission for Palestine. In the end, however, he failed to support Johnson's recommendations after Israel objected. The "informal talks" launched in the spring and summer of 1963 similarly made no progress.
It remains a point of controversy among historians whether or not Vietnam would have escalated to the point it did had Kennedy
served out his full term and possibly been re-elected in 1964.[6] Fueling this speculation are statements made by Kennedy's and Lyndon Johnson's Secretary of Defense Robert MacNamara that
Kennedy was strongly considering pulling out of Vietnam after the 1964 election. [7] Nevertheless, given the stated reason for the overthrow of the Diem government, such action would
have been a dramatic policy reversal.
Lee Harvey Oswald was arrested in a theatre about 80 minutes after the assassination and charged at 7:00 p.m. for killing a
Dallas policeman by "murder with malice", and also charged at 11:30 p.m. for the murder of Kennedy (there being no charge for
"assassination" of a president at that time). Oswald denied shooting anyone; he claimed that he was being set up as a
"patsy", and that photographs of him holding the alleged murder weapon were fabrications. Oswald
was fatally shot less than two days later in a Dallas police station by Jack Ruby, in front of
live TV cameras. Consequently, Oswald's guilt or innocence was never determined in a court of law, and some critics (such as New
Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison, and conspiracy researchers Mark Lane and David Lifton) contend that Oswald was not involved at all and that he was framed.
In 1960, Kennedy declared his intent to run for President of the United States. In the Democratic primary election, he faced challenges from Senator Hubert H.
Humphrey of Minnesota, Senator Lyndon B.
Johnson of Texas, and Adlai Stevenson, the
Democratic nominee in 1952 and 1956, who was not officially running but was a favorite write-in candidate. Kennedy won key primaries like Wisconsin and
West Virginia. In the latter state, Kennedy made a visit to a coal mine, and talked to the mine workers to win their support; most people in that conservative, mostly Protestant state were deeply
suspicious about Kennedy being a Catholic. Kennedy emerged as a universally acceptable candidate for the party after that
victory. On July 13, 1960, the Democratic Party nominated Kennedy
as its candidate for President. Kennedy asked Johnson to be his Vice-Presidential candidate, despite clashes between the two
during the primary elections. He needed Johnson's strength in the South to win
what was considered likely to be the closest election since 1916. Major issues included how to get the economy moving again, Kennedy's
Catholicism, Cuba, and whether both the Soviet space and missile programs had surpassed those of
the U.S. To allay fears that his Catholicism would impact his decision-making, he said in a famous speech in Houston, Texas (to the Greater Houston Ministerial Association), on September 12, 1960, "I am not the Catholic candidate for President. I am the
Democratic Party's candidate for President who also happens to be a Catholic. I do not speak for my Church on public matters—and
the Church does not speak for me." [5] Kennedy also brought up the point of whether one-quarter of Americans were relegated
to second-class citizenship just because they were Catholic.
Kennedy was a driven man. "The Kennedys were all puppets in the hands of the old man," Washington newspaperman Arthur Krock once observed. "I got Jack into politics," his father said, although he admitted that neither he nor his wife could picture their son as a politician. "I told him Joe [the oldest brother, who died a hero in World War II] was dead … and I told him he had to." Kennedy fell heir to the political know-how of his grandfather, the legendary "Honey Fitz," who had charmed and utilized the tough Boston Irish electorate. Meanwhile, Kennedy climbed more stairs and shook more hands and worked harder than the 10 other contenders for the candidacy combined.
Source:[14]
Ultimately, the death of President Kennedy and the ensuing confusion surrounding the facts of his assassination are of
political and historical importance insofar as they marked a decline in the faith of the American people in the political
establishment — a point made by commentators from Gore Vidal to Arthur Schlesinger, Jr.
John F. Kennedy left two different legacies. The first was best communicated through his lofty, inspiring rhetoric, his youth and personal elegance, and his glamorous wife. He also appealed to the aspirations of ordinary people through such programs as the Peace Corps. His Alliance for Progress, despite its inability to bring democratic reforms to Latin America, helped further his association with human rights. Much more electrifying was his promise to send an American to the moon by the end of the decade. Kennedy's delicate carrot-and-stick maneuvering with the Soviet Union and Nikita Khrushchev overcame a crisis over the future of the divided city of Berlin and the potential of a nuclear holocaust during the Cuban missile crisis of 1962, enabling him to conclude an agreement with the Soviet Union to ban nuclear tests in the atmosphere. His sudden martyrdom on November 22, 1963, by suspected assassin Lee Harvey Oswald quickly became the inspiration for President Johnson's Great Society program of social reforms, especially major civil rights legislation.
Kennedy was born in Brookline, Massachusetts, the son of Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr. and Rose Fitzgerald;
Rose, in turn, was the eldest child of John "Honey Fitz"
Fitzgerald, a prominent figure in Boston politics who was the city's mayor
and a three-term member of Congress.

In 1951 Kennedy spent 6 weeks traveling in Great Britain, France, Italy, Spain, Yugoslavia, and West Germany. On his return he advised the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations that he believed defending Western Europe was strategically important to the United States but that he felt Western Europeans should do more on their own behalf and not rely so strongly on the United States. That autumn he traveled around the world. His visits to the Middle East, India, Pakistan, Indochina, Malaya, and Korea caused him to reverse a previous position and support Point Four aid for the Middle East. He also urged that France get out of Algeria.
"Jack In Walk" shouted the Boston Globe after Kennedy gained the nomination. But it would be no walk to the White House against the Republican candidate, Richard Nixon. Kennedy's candidacy was controversial because he was a Roman Catholic; religious prejudice probably cost him a million votes in Illinois alone. But his "Houston speech" on Sept. 11, 1960, met the religious issue head on. He believed in the absolute separation of church and state, he said, in which no priest could tell a president what to do and in which no Protestant clergyman could tell his parishioners how to vote.
In Oct., 1962, U.S. reconnaissance planes discovered Soviet missile bases in Cuba. Kennedy immediately ordered a blockade to prevent more weapons from reaching Cuba and demanded the installations' removal. After an interval of extreme tension when the world appeared to be on the brink of nuclear war, the USSR complied with U.S. demands. Kennedy won much praise for his stance in the crisis, but some have criticized him for what they held to be unnecessary “brinkmanship.” In Aug., 1963, tension with the USSR was eased by conclusion of a treaty that prohibited the atmospheric testing of nuclear weapons.


Bibliography:

In Vietnam, Kennedy used limited military action to fight the Communist Nationalist forces in that Country led by
Ho Chi Minh. Proclaiming a fight against the spread of Communism, Kennedy enacted policies
providing political, economic, and military support for the unstable French-installed South
Vietnamese government, which included sending 18,000 military advisors and U.S. Special Forces to the area. Kennedy also
agreed to the use of napalm, defoliants, free-fire zones and jet planes. U.S. involvement in the area
continually escalated until regular U.S. forces were directly fighting the Vietnam War in
the next administration. The Kennedy Administration increased military support, but the South Vietnamese military was unable to
make headway against the pro-independence Viet-Minh and Viet Cong forces. By July 1963 Kennedy faced a crisis in Vietnam. The
Administration's response was to assist in the coup d'état of the Catholic President of
South Vietnam, Ngo Dinh Diem (LeFeber, "America, Russia and the Cold War", p. 233). In
1963, South Vietnamese generals overthrew the Diem government, arresting Diem and later killing him (though the exact
circumstances of his death remain unclear).[5] Kennedy
sanctioned Diem's overthrow. One reason for the support was a fear that Diem might negotiate a neutralist coalition government
which included Communists, as had occurred in Laos in 1962. Dean
Rusk, Secretary of State, remarked "This kind of neutralism...is tantamount to surrender."
Kennedy won the primary, the fall election, and reelection to the House in 1948 and in 1950. He kept his campaign pledges to work for broader social welfare programs, particularly in the area of low-cost public housing. Kennedy was a staunch friend of labor. In 1949 he became a member of the Joint Committee on Labor-Management Relations. He battled unsuccessfully against the Taft-Hartley Bill and later supported bills that sought to modify its restrictive provisions. Although Kennedy supported President Harry Truman's social welfare programs, progressive taxation, and regulation of business, he did not follow administration policies in foreign relations. He opposed the fighting in Korea "or any other place in Asia where we cannot hold our defenses."
On August 2, 1943, Kennedy's boat, the PT-109, was taking part in a nighttime maritime patrol near New Georgia (in the Solomon Islands) when it was rammed by a
Japanese destroyer. Kennedy was thrown across the deck,
injuring his already-troubled back. Still, Kennedy towed a wounded man three miles (5 km) in the ocean, arriving at an island
where his crew was subsequently rescued. Kennedy said that he blacked out for periods of time during the life-threatening ordeal.
For these actions, Kennedy received the Navy and Marine Corps Medal under
the following citation:
The 35th President of the United States (1961–1963). A U.S. representative (1947–1953) and senator (1953–1960) from Massachusetts, he became the youngest man elected to the presidency (1960). Kennedy approved the failed invasion of the Bay of Pigs (1961) and forced Khrushchev to remove Soviet missiles from Cuba (1962). He also established the Peace Corps (1961) and advocated civil rights reform. Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas, Texas, on November 22, 1963.
Perhaps the most objective, scholarly biographical account of Kennedy is Theodore Sorenson, Kennedy (1965), combining the insights of the "insider" with the detachment of the historian. Intimate but more romanticized is Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., A Thousand Days (1965), winner of a Pulitzer Prize. Useful books by intimates of Kennedy include Evelyn Lincoln, My Twelve Years with John F. Kennedy (1965), and Pierre Salinger, With Kennedy (1966). The most critical, but well-annotated, study is Victor Lasky, J. F. K.: The Man and the Myth (1963). Valuable insights are in the anthology by Donald S. Harrington, As We Remember Him (1965), and in Tom Wicker, JFK and LBI: The Influence of Personality upon Politics (1968). Kennedy's election to the presidency is detailed in Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., History of American Presidential Elections (4 vols., 1971). Robert Kennedy, Thirteen Days (1969), illumines the tensions of the Cuban missile crisis. William Manchester, The Death of a President (1967), is the definitive work on the assassination. See also Hugh Sidey, John F. Kennedy, President (1963), and Alex Goldman, John Fitzgerald Kennedy: The World Remembers (1968).
The turbulent end of state-sanctioned racial discrimination was one of the most pressing domestic issues of Kennedy's era. The
U.S. Supreme Court had ruled in 1954 that racial segregation in public schools would no longer be permitted. However, many schools, especially
in southern states, did not obey the Supreme Court's injunction. Segregation on buses, in restaurants, movie theaters, bathrooms,
and other public places remained. Kennedy supported racial integration and civil
rights, and during the 1960 campaign he telephoned Coretta Scott King; wife of the
jailed Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr., which perhaps drew some additional
black support to his candidacy.

Congressional Career
However, Kennedy desired a political career. In 1946 he became a candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives from the Massachusetts eleventh congressional district. Realizing that, despite his family's background in Democratic politics, he was unknown to the district's electorate, Kennedy built a large personal organization for his campaign. On whirlwind tours he met as many voters as possible, addressing them in a direct, informal style on timely topics. In this campaign, as in all the others, his brothers, sisters, and mother supported him. His brothers, Robert and Ted, acted as his managers, while his sisters and mother held social events.
The assassination was captured on Super 8 mm film by Dallas dress manufacturer
Abraham Zapruder. The film shows President Kennedy clutching his throat after a bullet
struck him. Shortly after, it shows the effect of the second, fatal blow to the head. There is visible blood spatter, and then
the president slumps to his left onto the seat.

The Cuban invasion burst over the Kennedy administration like a bombshell in April 1961. On April 17 it became known that 1,400 exiled Cubans had invaded Cuba's Las Villas Province and had penetrated 10 miles inland. On April 18 Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev sent a note to Kennedy stating that his government was prepared to come to the aid of the Cuban government to help it resist armed attack. By April 20 the invasion was clearly a failure. Who was responsible for American involvement in this shabby operation? Kennedy shouldered the responsibility for the fiasco, but his biographers have since noted that "Operation Pluto," committing the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to train Cuban guerrillas, was a project of Dwight D. Eisenhower's administration. Kennedy, initially overawed by the CIA and the joint chiefs of staff, in the end refused to commit the necessary American troops. He was aware that if the Cuban people did not rise up and back the invaders, the United States could not impose a regime on them. Furthermore, he was apprehensive that if America moved in Cuba the Soviet Union might move in Berlin. The Bay of Pigs fiasco proved Kennedy's ability to face disaster. When it was over, he was "effectively in control."
Gazit, Mordechai. President Kennedy's Policy toward the ArabStates and Israel: Analysis and Documents. Tel Aviv: Shiloah Center for Middle Eastern and African Studies, Tel Aviv University, 1983.

Kennedy was the first president to face a nuclear confrontation; the first to literally reach for the moon, through the nation's space programs; the first in half a century to call a White House conference on conservation; the first to give the arts a prominent place in American national councils; the first since Theodore Roosevelt with whom youth could identify. He made the nation see itself with new eyes.
The Kennedy administration was enmeshed in a series of foreign crises almost immediately. In April 1961 Kennedy was severely criticized for approving an ill-fated invasion of the Bay of Pigs, in Cuba. This clandestine operation, conceived during the Eisenhower administration, was conducted by anti-Communist Cuban exiles trained in the United States and was directed by the Central Intelligence Agency. The invasion achieved public notoriety when it failed and created international tension.
Following his training with the Motor Torpedo Boat Squadron, Kennedy was shipped to the South Pacific into the war against Japan. In March 1943 he received command of a PT boat. That August, when his boat was sliced in two by a Japanese destroyer, two of his crew were killed, while Kennedy and four others clung to the half of the PT boat that remained afloat. Six other men survived in the nearby water, two wounded. In a 3-hour struggle Kennedy got the wounded crewmen to the floating hulk. When it capsized, he ordered his men to swim to a small island about 3 miles away, while he towed one man to shore in a heroic 5-hour struggle. Several days later, having displayed exceptional qualities of courage, leadership, and endurance, Kennedy succeeded in having his men rescued.
Kennedy was eager for the United States to lead the way in the space race. Sergei
Khrushchev says JFK approached his father, Nikita, twice about a "joint venture" in space exploration—in June 1961 and Autumn
1963. On the first occasion, Russia was far ahead of America in terms of space technology. JFK later made a speech at
Rice University in September 1962, in which he said, "No nation which expects to be the
leader of other nations can expect to stay behind in this race for space" and, "We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard."[12]. On the second
approach to Khrushchev, the Russian was persuaded that cost-sharing was beneficial and American space technology was forging
ahead. The U.S. had launched a geostationary satellite and Kennedy had asked
Congress to approve more than $22 billion for the Apollo Project, which had the goal of
landing an American man on the moon before the end of the decade. Khrushchev agreed to a joint venture in Autumn 1963, but JFK
died in November before the agreement could be formalized. On July 20, 1969, almost six years after Kennedy's death, the Project Apollo's goal was realized when Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin became the first men to land on the
moon.
Kennedy appealed by television to the conscience of the nation. "We are confronted with a moral issue. It is as old as the Scriptures and it is as clear as the American Constitution." He called upon the American people to exhibit a sense of fairness. The political costs were high because Kennedy already had the African American vote.
Vietnam Commitments
The President was closely tied to popular culture. Things such as "Twisting at the White House" and "Camelot" (the popular
Broadway play) were part of the JFK culture. Vaughn Meader's "First Family" comedy
album—an album parodying the President, First Lady, their family and administration—sold about 4 million copies. On
May 19, 1962 Marilyn Monroe
sang for the president at a large birthday party in Madison Square Garden.



Behind the glamorous facade, the Kennedys also suffered many personal tragedies. Jacqueline suffered a miscarriage in 1955 and
gave birth to a stillborn daughter in 1956. The death of their newborn son in August 1963, Patrick Bouvier Kennedy, was a great loss. In the years following the Kennedy presidency it came
to be known that Kennedy carried on numerous extramarital dalliances throughout his presidency, all connived at by those members of the presidential staff.

Kennedy and his wife "Jackie" were very young in comparison to earlier Presidents and first ladies, and were both
extraordinarily popular in ways more common to pop singers and movie
stars than politicians, influencing fashion trends and becoming the subjects of numerous photo spreads in popular
magazines.
Thomas Reeves' A Question of Character: A Life of John F. Kennedy is a sharply critical analysis of Kennedy's
"revisionism". Noam Chomsky, in his book Rethinking Camelot: JFK, the Vietnam War, and
US Political Culture (1993), presents a thesis on the Kennedy administration in opposition to the one that lingers in the
memory of many Americans.
House of Representatives
Sen. Joseph McCarthy was a friend of the Kennedy family; Robert F. Kennedy worked on the staff of McCarthy's committee, and McCarthy dated Patricia Kennedy. In 1954, when the Senate was poised to condemn McCarthy, John Kennedy had a speech
drafted calling for the censure of McCarthy but he never delivered it. When the Senate rendered its highly publicized decision to
censure McCarthy on December 2, 1954, Senator Kennedy was in a
hospital and never indicated then or later how he would have voted. The episode seriously affected Kennedy in the liberal
community, especially with Eleanor Roosevelt, as late as the 1960 election. [T.
Reeves, & Collier & Horowitz]
In September and October, Kennedy debated Republican candidate Vice President Richard
Nixon in the first televised U.S. presidential
debates. During the debates, Nixon looked tense and uncomfortable, while Kennedy was composed, which led the television
audience to deem Kennedy the winner, although radio listeners in general thought Nixon had won or the debate was a draw. [6]
Nixon did not wear make-up during the debate unlike Kennedy. The debates are considered a political landmark: the point at which
the medium of television played an important role in politics.
Kennedy joined the Navy in 1941 and commanded a PT boat in the Pacific. In 1943 the boat was attacked and destroyed, and Kennedy emerged a hero owing to his valiant efforts to save his crew. Joseph was killed in action in 1944. Kennedy's father then transferred his political goals to Kennedy.
Kennedy's back operations were not completely successful, and he was never again entirely free from pain. He resumed his senatorial duties in May 1955. During the next years he opposed reform in the electoral college, favored American aid to help India stabilize its economy, and became a strong advocate of civil rights legislation. Social welfare legislation was of primary concern. The Kennedy-Douglas-Ives Bill (1957) required full disclosure and accounting of all employee pension and welfare funds. The Kennedy-Byrd-Payne Bill was a budgeting and accounting bill that placed the financial structure of the government on an annual accrued expenditure basis. Kennedy also sponsored bills for providing Federal financial aid to education and for relaxing United States immigration laws.
Education and Youth
Kennedy did not see further action, for he suffered an attack of malaria and aggravation of his back injury. In December he returned to the United States. After a hospital stay he became a PT instructor in Florida, until he was hospitalized again. He was retired from the service in the rank of full lieutenant in March 1945, having undergone a disk operation. Returning to civilian life, Kennedy did newspaper work for several months, covering the United Nations Conference on International Organization in San Francisco, the Potsdam Conference, and the British elections of 1945.
Out of this confrontation came the greatest single triumph of the Kennedy administration: the nuclear testban treaty with the Soviet Union. Kennedy called this treaty "the first step down the path of peace." Before negotiations for the treaty were completed, Khrushchev had defiantly reopened the nuclear race. Kennedy, however, held firm, and the treaty was signed on July 25, 1963. "Yesterday a shaft of light cut into the darkness," Kennedy said. A "hot line" for emergency messages was also established between Washington, D.C., and Moscow.



Major events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs invasion, the
Cuban Missile Crisis, the building of the Berlin
Wall, the Space Race, early events of the Vietnam
War, and the American Civil Rights
Movement.
In 1960 Kennedy won the Democratic presidential nomination. He selected Senator Lyndon B. Johnson, of Texas, as his running mate. After a vigorous campaign that included television debates with Republican Richard M. Nixon, Kennedy won the election by fewer than 120,000 popular votes. He was the youngest person ever elected president, and the first Roman Catholic. His impressive inaugural speech contained the popular phrase "Ask not what your country can do for you—ask what you can do for your country."

In 1957 Kennedy was appointed to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, where he became a critic of the Eisenhower administration's foreign policy and a champion for increased aid to underdeveloped countries. He also served on the committee that investigated corruption and racketeering in labor unions and the head of the Teamsters Union, James R. Hoffa.

Years later, it was revealed that, as a young man, Kennedy had been diagnosed with Addison's disease, a rare endocrine disorder. This and other medical disorders were kept from the
press and public throughout Kennedy's lifetime.[3]
In 1960 he entered and won seven presidential primaries and captured the Democratic nomination on the first ballot. To balance the ticket, he selected Lyndon B. Johnson as his vice-presidential candidate. In the campaign that followed, Kennedy engaged in a series of televised debates with his Republican opponent, Richard M. Nixon. Defeating Nixon by a narrow popular margin, Kennedy became at 43 the youngest person ever, and the first Catholic, elected President.
The Kennedys brought new life and vigor — a favorite word of Kennedy — to the atmosphere of the White House.[citation needed] They believed that the White House should be a place to celebrate American
history, culture, and achievement, and they invited artists, writers, scientists, poets, musicians, actors, Nobel Prize winners and athletes to visit, notwithstanding Kennedy's own well-known middle-brow intellectual
and aesthetic tastes.[citation needed] Jacqueline Kennedy
also bought new art and furniture and eventually restored all the
rooms in the White House.
His Legacy
ksh:John F. Kennedy
Many of Kennedy's domestic reform proposals were either killed or not acted on by Congress. In the area of civil rights and integration the administration assigned federal marshals to protect Freedom Ride demonstrations and used federal troops in Mississippi (1962) and a federalized National Guard in Alabama (1963) to quell disturbances resulting from enforced school desegregation. In June, 1963, Kennedy proposed civil-rights legislation, but this, like his tax reform program, languished until after his death.

In 1952 he was elected to the Senate, defeating the incumbent, Republican Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr. Kennedy kept a low profile at first, working on legislation that benefited Massachusetts. Back problems and other physical maladies bedeviled Kennedy during this period. He underwent two operations on his back to alleviate chronic pain. During his convalescence he wrote Profiles in Courage (1956), a series of essays on courageous stands taken by U.S. senators throughout U.S. history. It won the 1957 Pulitzer Prize for biography.
By then, Kennedy's reputation, together with the opening of a more hopeful dialogue with the Soviets, had made him an international hero. A transitional presidency became better remembered as a model for future White House leadership and for its reaffirmation of American humanitarian values. There had been other assassinations, but only Kennedy's resembled Lincoln's in helping create a new legend. To millions all over the world, John F. Kennedy continued to embody an almost mythical view of the ideal American president.
On November 22, 1963, Kennedy's term was ended by an assassin's bullets in Dallas, and Johnson was sworn in as president. Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with the murder. Oswald was killed two days later by Dallas nightclub owner Jack Ruby, while being moved from the city jail to the county jail. Johnson appointed a commission headed by Chief Justice Earl Warren to investigate the Kennedy assassination. In its report, issued in September 1964, the commission concluded that Oswald acted alone in murdering Kennedy.
Kennedy was well aware of the dangers of the presidency. One of his favorite poems was "I Have a Rendezvous with Death," and he had always been haunted by the poignancy of those who die young. "Who can tell who will be president a year from now?" he would ask. On the fatal day of his arrival in Dallas, Tex., he remarked that if anyone wanted to kill a president he needed only a high building and a rifle with a telescopic lens.
On Nov. 22, 1963, President Kennedy was shot and killed while riding in a motorcade in Dallas, Tex. The Warren Commission, appointed by his successor Lyndon Johnson to investigate the murder, eventually concluded that it was the work of a single assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald. Kennedy's death shocked the nation. Many felt that he would have gone on to achieve greatness as a President. Subsequent revelations, especially concerning his sexual activity, have somewhat dimmed his luster, but the sense that his administration was a youthful, idealistic “Camelot” remains powerful. He is buried in Arlington National Cemetery.
Bibliography

Kennedy attended the Canterbury parochial school (1930-1931), completing his preparatory education at the Choate School (1931-1935). He enrolled at Princeton University in 1935, but illness soon forced him to withdraw. Upon recovery he went to Harvard University. During his junior year he traveled in Europe, observing the political tensions that were leading to World War II. He was gathering materials for his senior thesis, which, reflecting some of the isolationist views of his father, later became the bestselling book Why England Slept (1940).
Born in Brookline, Massachusetts, John Fitzgerald Kennedy was the son of Joseph P. Kennedy, first chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and ambassador to Britain from 1937 to 1940. After a Harvard University education, Kennedy served in the navy during World War II, then served as U.S. congressman (1947 - 1953) and senator (1953 - 1960) from Massachusetts.
Presidency
After World War II, John thought about being a journalist for a while before he decided to run for political office. Prior to
the war, he hadn't really thought about being a politician primarily because his older brother, Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr. had been tabbed by the family as the future politician, and hopefully, the
future President. Tragically, Joe was killed in World War II, making Jack next in line to fulfill his father's political
ambitions. In 1946, Representative James Michael Curley vacated his seat in an
overwhelmingly Democratic district to become mayor of Boston, and Kennedy ran for
that seat, beating his Republican opponent by a large margin. He was a congressman for six years but had a mixed voting record,
often diverging from President Harry S. Truman and the rest of the Democratic Party. In
1952, he defeated incumbent Republican Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr. for the U.S.
Senate. Kennedy married Jacqueline Lee Bouvier on September 12, 1953. He underwent several spinal operations in the two
following years, nearly dying (receiving the Catholic faith's "last rites" four
times during his life), and was often absent from the Senate. During this period, he published Profiles in Courage, highlighting eight instances in which U.S. Senators risked their careers by
standing by their personal beliefs. The book was awarded the 1957 Pulitzer Prize for
Biography.
Campaign for the Presidency
Kennedy's record in Congress, together with his thoughtful books and articles, had attracted national attention. At the Democratic National Convention in Chicago in 1956, when presidential nominee Adlai E. Stevenson left the choice of his running mate open, Kennedy was narrowly defeated by Estes Kefauver. From then on, however, Kennedy was running for the presidency. He began building a personal national organization. Formally announcing his candidacy in January 1960, Kennedy made whirlwind tours and won the Democratic primaries in New Hampshire, Wisconsin, Indiana, Ohio, Oregon, Maryland, and Nebraska, plus an upset victory over Hubert Humphrey in West Virginia. On July 13, 1960, Kennedy was nominated on the first ballot, with Lyndon B. Johnson as his running mate.
Faced with these problems, Kennedy proposed legislation requiring that hotels, motels, and restaurants admit customers regardless of race. He also asked that the U.S. attorney general be given authority to file court suits demanding the desegregation of public schools. Most of these proposals were passed in the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C.A. §2000a et seq.).
Five days after Oswald was killed, President Lyndon B. Johnson created the
Warren Commission—chaired by Chief Justice Earl
Warren—to investigate the assassination. It concluded that Oswald was the lone assassin. A later investigation in the
1970s by the House Select Committee on
Assassinations (HSCA) also concluded that Oswald was the assassin, but that there was a "probable conspiracy" as well.
[13]
Kennedy's legacy has been memorialized in various aspects of American culture. They include:
In April 1952 Kennedy announced his candidacy for the U.S. Senate, running against the strongly entrenched Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., a Republican liberal. Kennedy won by over 70,000 votes. Lodge reeled under the impact: "those damned tea-parties," he said. He had not run against a man, but a family - the Kennedy women having acted as hostesses to at least 70,000 Massachusetts housewives. In 1958 Kennedy was reelected.
This direct confrontation was brinkmanship. For a week the details had been "the best kept secret in government history." Through 7 days of gripping tension and soul-searching, the administration had maintained a facade of normal social and political activities. Meanwhile, American military units throughout the world were alerted.
As President, Kennedy initially believed the grassroots movement for civil rights would only anger many Southern whites and
make it even more difficult to pass civil rights laws through Congress, which was dominated by Southern Democrats, and he
distanced himself from it. As a result, many civil rights leaders viewed Kennedy as unsupportive of their efforts.
While an undergraduate at Harvard (1936–40) he served briefly in London as secretary to his father, who was ambassador there. His Harvard honors thesis on the British failure to judge the threat of Nazi Germany was published as Why England Slept (1940). Enlisting in the navy in Sept., 1941, he became commander of a PT boat in the Pacific in World War II. In action off the Solomon Islands (Aug., 1943), his boat, PT 109, was sunk, and Kennedy was credited with saving the life of at least one of his crew.
Soon after his inaugural, Kennedy set out his domestic program, known as the New Frontier: tax reform, federal aid to education, medical care for the aged under Social Security, enlargement of civil rights through executive action, aid to depressed areas, and an accelerated space program. He was almost immediately, however, caught up in foreign affairs crises. The first (Apr., 1961) was the abortive Bay of Pigs Invasion of Cuba by Cuban exiles trained and aided by the Central Intelligence Agency. Although the invasion had been planned under Eisenhower, Kennedy had approved it, and was widely criticized.
War Hero

1917 - 1963
Author:
In 1940, Kennedy wrote his honors thesis, entitled "Appeasement in Munich" about the British dealings concerning the
Munich Agreement. He initially intended for his thesis to be only for college use, but
his father encouraged him to publish it in a book. He graduated cum laude from
Harvard with a degree in international affairs in June 1940. His thesis was
published in 1940 as a book entitled, "Why England Slept,"[2] and became a bestseller. [3]
After graduating from Harvard cum laude with a bachelor of science degree in 1940, Kennedy enrolled at Stanford University for graduate studies. In April 1941 he tried to enlist in the U.S. Army but was rejected for physical reasons (a back injury received while playing football). Months later, his back strengthened through a regimen of exercises, the Navy accepted him. He became an intelligence officer with the rank of lieutenant junior grade in Washington, D.C. After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor he requested active duty at sea; this assignment was not granted until late in 1942.

It is suggested by Kennedy's critics that his failure to disclose the severity of his health concerns represented something of
a failure of professional integrity. Seymour Hersh's The Dark Side of Camelot (1998) presents one such critical analysis
of the Kennedy administration, stating that Kennedy "was probably one of the unhealthiest men ever to sit in the Oval Office,"
because of Addison's Disease and a bad back, as well as recurring childhood illnesses and venereal infections. Robert Dallek's
An Unfinished Life (2003) is a more traditional biography but contains a lot of detail about Kennedy's health issues.
A recurrence of his old back injuries forced Kennedy to use crutches during 1954. An operation in October was followed by another in February 1955. He spent his months of illness and recuperation writing biographical profiles of Americans who had exercised moral courage at crisis points in their lives. Profiles in Courage (1956), a best seller, won the Pulitzer Prize for biography in 1957.
Yet his most cherished dreams foundered without the influence of his inspiration and guiding hand. The Alliance for Progress, his program to revitalize life throughout the poor nations of South America, disintegrated - Latin American leaders were simply not committed to democratic change. The youthful idealism of the Peace Corps eroded under the impact of disillusionment and reality. The romantic "Green Berets" degenerated into a cloak-and-dagger outfit.
Television became the primary source by which people were kept informed of events
surrounding John F. Kennedy's assassination. Newspapers were kept as souvenirs rather than sources of updated information. U.S.
networks switched to 24-hour news coverage for the first time ever. Kennedy's
state funeral procession and the murder of Lee Harvey Oswald were all broadcast live in America and in other places around
the world.
John Kennedy was sworn in as the 35th President on January
20, 1961. In his inaugural address he spoke of the need for all Americans to
be active citizens. "Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country", he said. He also asked the
nations of the world to join together to fight what he called the "common enemies of man: tyranny, poverty, disease, and
war itself." [7]
Kennedy was born May 29, 1917, in Brookline, Massachusetts. His father, Joseph P. Kennedy, was a self-made millionaire and the son of a Boston politician. His mother, Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy, was the daughter of John F. ("Honey Fitz") Fitzgerald, who served as a Representative and a mayor of Boston. Kennedy, one of nine children, graduated from Harvard University in 1940. His senior thesis, "Why England Slept," which dealt with the reasons Great Britain had been unprepared for World War II, was published in 1940 to great acclaim. His father thought that Kennedy would be a writer or teacher, and that Kennedy's older brother, Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr., would go into politics. World War II changed those plans.

Kennedy's achievements during his brief term as chief executive included an agreement with the Soviet Union to restrict nuclear testing to underground facilities; the creation of the Alliance for Progress to establish economic programs to aid Latin America; and the creation of the Peace Corps program, which provides U.S. volunteers to work in underdeveloped countries.
John F. Kennedy voted for final passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1957,
after having earlier voted for the "Jury Trial Amendment", which effectively rendered the Act toothless, because convictions for
violations could not be obtained. Staunch segregationists such as James Eastland, John McClellan, and Mississippi Governor James Coleman were early supporters in Kennedy's
presidential campaign. [T. Reeves, "A Question of Character', p. 140]

The assassination had an effect on many people, not only in the U.S., but also among the world population. Many vividly
remember where they were when first learning of the news that Kennedy was assassinated. U.N. Ambassador Adlai Stevenson said of the assassination, "all of us... will bear the grief of his death until the day
of ours."
Kennedy attended Edward Devotion School for four years (kindergarten in 1922 to third grade), Riverdale Country
School in the Bronx, the Dexter School in Boston, a year at Canterbury School, and then
The Choate School in Wallingford,
Connecticut,[1] one of the country's most elite
private boarding schools for boys, from which he graduated in 1935. On September 25,
1935, he sailed to London with his parents and his sister
Kathleen. There he enrolled at the London School of Economics with the intention of studying political economy for a year under the tutelage of Professor Harold
Laski, but an illness hospitalized him shortly after his enrollment. His father insisted he return to the US. Later during
the autumn of 1935, he enrolled in Princeton University, but was forced to leave
after developing jaundice. The next autumn, he began attending Harvard College, where he resided in Winthrop House. Kennedy
traveled to Europe twice during his Harvard years, visiting Britain, where his father was serving as ambassador to the
Court of St. James. In 1937, Kennedy was prescribed steroids to control his colitis, which only increased his medical problems,
causing him to develop osteoporosis of the lower lumbar
spine [2]. After graduating from Harvard, he attended Stanford University’s
business school for a few months and then traveled to South America.
The Cuban Missile Crisis began on October
14, 1962, when American U-2 spy planes took photographs of a Soviet intermediate-range
ballistic missile site under construction in Cuba. America would soon be posed with a serious nuclear threat. Here Kennedy faced
a dilemma: if the U.S. attacked the sites it might lead to nuclear war with the
U.S.S.R. If the U.S. did nothing, it would endure the perpetual threat of nuclear weapons
within its region—in such close proximity that if the weapons were launched pre-emptively, the U.S. may have been unable to
retaliate. Another fear was that the U.S. would appear to the world as weak in its own hemisphere. Many military officials and
cabinet members pressed for an air assault on the missile sites, but Kennedy ordered a naval blockade in which the U.S. Navy inspected all ships. He began negotiations with the Soviets. He ordered the
Soviets to remove all "defensive" material that is being built off the Cuban island. Without doing so, the Soviet people would
face a naval blockade, as well as Cuba. A week later, he and Soviet Premier Nikita
Khrushchev reached an agreement. Khrushchev agreed to remove the missiles while the U.S. publicly promised never to invade
Cuba and also secretly promised to remove U.S. ballistic missiles from Turkey within six months.
Following this incident, which brought the world closer to nuclear war than at any point before or since, Kennedy was more
cautious in confronting the Soviet Union.[citation needed]
In 1962, James Meredith tried to enroll at the University of Mississippi, but he was prevented from doing so by white students. Kennedy
responded by sending some 400 federal marshals and 3,000 troops to ensure
that Meredith could enroll in his first class. Kennedy also assigned federal marshals to protect Freedom Riders.
The second Kennedy legacy, more arguable and tentative, involved the contention that his objectives were myopic to begin with, and that he encouraged inflated expectations, both at home and abroad. His misguided effort to topple Fidel Castro's Cuban regime during the Bay of Pigs fiasco triggered a chain of events that helped lead to the later showdown over Russian missiles in Cuba. His continuation of the American commitment to the South Vietnamese government of President Ngo Dinh Diem intensified the escalation in Southeast Asia. That policy became virtually irreversible when Kennedy became an accomplice in Diem's subsequent overthrow. Those who had expected a more activist presidency found him too timid about pressuring the still-powerful congressional conservatives. Fear of political retribution inhibited requests for additional civil rights legislation until violent resistance to Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s, desegregation efforts removed his options.
Other critics point out that Kennedy started the process which led to the U.S. getting involved in a complete war in Vietnam. They point to Kennedy sending over 18,000 military advisers and introducing napalm, defoliants, strategic hamlet, free-fire zones and jet planes to the Vietnam conflict, which the
previous administration was not willing to do.
Further Reading
As a senator, Kennedy supported Algeria's independence from France. After taking office as president in 1961, Kennedy's policy toward the Middle East shifted from that of previous administrations. He initially supported Egypt's President Gamal Abdel Nasser, whom he saw as a progressive leader, favoring nationalism, who might keep the Arab world out of the Soviet Union's orbit. Nasser's conflict with Saudi Arabia over the Yemen Civil War undermined Kennedy's policy, however. At the same time that he was attempting to woo Nasser, Kennedy also strengthened U.S. ties with Israel, and he approved the sale of Hawk antiaircraft missiles to Israel in 1962 - the first advanced U.S. weapons system sold to Israel. Yet he was plagued by Israel's attempts to develop nuclear weapons at its Dimona nuclear facility, and his attempts to press the Israelis on the matter damaged his relationship with Israeli prime minister David Ben-Gurion.
On June 11, 1963, President Kennedy intervened when
Alabama Governor George Wallace blocked the doorway to
the University of Alabama to stop two African American students, Vivian Malone and James Hood, from enrolling. George Wallace
moved aside after being confronted by federal marshals, Deputy Attorney General Nicholas
Katzenbach, and the Alabama National Guard. That evening Kennedy
gave his famous civil rights address on national television and radio. [9] Kennedy
proposed what would become the Civil Rights Act of 1964. [10] [11]
On the domestic front, Kennedy dealt with a newly invigorated civil rights movement that was seeking to integrate the South. In 1961 federal marshals were sent to Montgomery, Alabama, to help restore order after race riots erupted. In 1962 Kennedy sent three thousand federal troops into Oxford, Mississippi, to restore order after whites rioted against the University of Mississippi's admission of James Meredith, its first African American student. In 1963 Kennedy was forced to federalize the Alabama National Guard in order to integrate the University of Alabama. Later that year he federalized the guard again in order to integrate the public schools in three Alabama cities.
Bibliography
Kennedy is also sometimes credited with giving American Catholics the full recognition they deserved as American citizens. He
is also seen as responsible for giving Catholics full opportunities in politics outside of the Northeast.
In June 1961 Kennedy and Premier Nikita Khrushchev, of the Soviet Union, met in Vienna to discuss ways of improving Soviet-U.S. relations. Instead of proceeding with those discussions, Khrushchev announced an increased alliance with East Germany. Later the Berlin Wall was constructed to prohibit Western influence and to prevent persons from fleeing East Germany. In response, the United States added to its military forces in Germany.
John F. Kennedy was assassinated on November 22,
1963. The Warren Commission concluded that
Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone in killing the president, although later the
House Select Committee on Assassinations
concluded that a conspiracy may have been involved in the assassination [1],
and the subject remains controversial. Kennedy's assassination is considered to be a
defining moment in U.S. history due to its traumatic impact on the nation
as well as on the political history of the ensuing decades, his subsequent branding as an icon for a new generation of Americans
and American aspirations, and for the mystery and conspiracy allegations which surround it.

As one of his first presidential acts, Kennedy created the Peace Corps. Through this
program, Americans volunteered to help underdeveloped nations in areas such as education,
farming, health care and construction.
The inauguration on Jan. 20, 1960, of the first president born in the 20th century had a quality of pageant, as the old poet Robert Frost, the old priest Cardinal Richard Cushing, and the old president Dwight Eisenhower watched the torch being passed to a new generation. Then the challenge of Kennedy's inaugural address rang out: "Ask not what your country can do for you, but rather what you can do for your country." The new "First Family" quickly captured the public imagination: Jacqueline, with her cameo beauty and her passion for excellence; 3-year-old Caroline; and newborn John.
During his presidency, Kennedy privately admitted to friends that he didn't feel that he deserved the medals he had received,
because the PT-109 incident had been the result of a botched military operation that had cost the lives of two members of his
crew. When asked by interviewers how he became a war hero, Kennedy's grim reply was: "It was involuntary. They sank my boat."

U.S. involvement in Southeast Asia began to increase during the Kennedy administration. Kennedy agreed to send U.S. advisers to help the South Vietnamese government fight Communist rebels. In 1963 the United States became involved in overthrowing the corrupt and unscrupulous South Vietnamese government of President Ngo Dinh Diem.
(1917-1963), thirty-fifth president of the United States. Kennedy was born into an Irish-American family with aspirations resembling those of the British gentry. Overcoming limitations of health and doubts about his personal ambitions, he achieved the presidency by battling simultaneously on several fronts. Kennedy coasted to the inevitable first-ballot nomination at the Democratic party's Los Angeles convention in July 1960 and then pulled off what proved to be an essential political coup by selecting Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas as his running mate. Kennedy's electoral college margin of 303-219 was won with little more than a 100,000-vote plurality out of nearly 69 million cast. At the age of forty-three, he became the youngest man to reach the White House via the electoral college. Most significant was his ability to demonstrate that a Roman Catholic could win.
He also visited the original cottage where previous Kennedys had lived before emigrating to America, and said, "This is where
it all began...."
As President, Kennedy oversaw the last pre-Furman federal execution, and last, to date, military execution. In both cases he
refused ask for commutation the death sentences (Iowa Governor
Harold Hughes personally contacted Kennedy to request clemency for Victor Feguer who was sentenced to death under federal law in Iowa and executed on March 15, 1963).
The most serious crisis occurred in October 1962, when it was learned that Soviet missiles were about to be placed in Cuba. Kennedy issued a forceful statement demanding the dismantling of the missile sites and ordered a blockade to prevent the delivery of the missiles to Cuba. The world was poised for nuclear war until Khrushchev backed down and agreed to Kennedy's demands. Kennedy's handling of the crisis led to national acclaim.
Taking his seat in the Senate in January 1953, Kennedy served on the Labor and Public Welfare Committee, the Government Operations Committee, the Select Committee on Labor-Management Relations, the Foreign Relations Committee, and the Joint Economic Committee. He secured passage of several bills to aid the Massachusetts fishing and textile industries and fought to ameliorate New England's economic problems. In 1954 he voted to extend the president's powers under the reciprocal trade program.
Nuclear Confrontation
Kennedy rapidly learned the great limitations on a president's ability to solve problems. He wanted the United States to reexamine its attitude toward the Soviet Union, and he wanted to act upon both nations' mutual "abhorrence of war." His separate meetings with Gen. Charles De Gaulle, the president of France, and Khrushchev in the spring of 1961 were social triumphs but political defeats. Kennedy failed to dissuade De Gaulle from pulling France out of the North Atlantic Treaty Alliance, and he could reach no agreement with the Soviet chief on the status of Berlin. He did voice to Khrushchev, however, America's determination to stay in Berlin. Each threatened to meet force with force. In August the Berlin crisis exploded. The East Germans tightened border curbs and erected a wall of concrete blocks along most of the 25-mile border between East Berlin and West Berlin. Kennedy unequivocally stated that the United States would not abandon West Berlin.
In June, 1961, the President met in Vienna with Soviet Premier Khrushchev. Hopes of a thaw in the cold war were dashed by Khrushchev's threat that the USSR would conclude a peace treaty with East Germany and thus cut off Western access to West Berlin. In the period of tension that followed, the United States increased its military strength while the East Germans erected the Berlin Wall.
On Oct. 22, 1962, Kennedy addressed the nation on a grave matter. The Soviet Union, he said, had deployed nuclear missiles in Cuba, and the United States had declared a quarantine on all shipments of offensive military equipment into Cuba. The United States would not allow Cuba to become a Soviet missile base, and it would regard any missile launched from Cuba "as an attack by the Soviet Union on the United States, requiring a full retaliatory response."
Many of Kennedy's speeches (especially his inaugural address) are considered iconic; and despite his relatively short term in
office and lack of major legislative changes during his term, Americans regularly vote him as one of the best Presidents, in the
same league as Abraham Lincoln, George
Washington and Franklin D. Roosevelt. Some excerpts of Kennedy's inaugural
address are engraved on a plaque at his grave at Arlington.
President Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas, Texas, at 12:30 p.m. CST on November 22, 1963, while on a political
trip through Texas. He was struck by at least two bullets. Texas Governor John Connally, seated ahead of Kennedy, was also struck by a bullet, but survived.
The White House also seemed like a more fun, youthful place, because of the Kennedys' two young children, Caroline and John Jr. (who came to be known in the
popular press as "John-John" though years later Jacqueline Kennedy denied that the family called him by that name).[citation needed] Outside the White House lawn, the Kennedys established a preschool,
swimming pool, and tree house. Jackie did not like the children to be photographed, and during her frequent absences, Kennedy
asked photographers to come and photograph the children in the Oval Office. He was quoted as saying, "Jackie's not here, so you'd
better come over right away."[citation needed] The resulting photos are probably the most famous of the children, and
especially John Jr., after he was photographed playing underneath the President’s desk.
As messages went back and forth between Kennedy, Khrushchev, and Pope John, who volunteered his aid as peacemaker, Soviet ships were moving toward Kennedy's invisible line in the Atlantic. Would they stop? They slowed, then stopped, and on October 28 the news came that the Soviet Union would remove its missiles from Cuba. For a time Kennedy seemed at least 10 feet tall, but his own wry comment on the crisis was, "Nobody wants to go through what we went through in Cuba very often."

In May 2002, a National Geographic expedition found what is believed to
be the wreckage of the PT-109 in the Solomon Islands. One of the Kennedy family also returned to the islands to give a
gift to the scouts who are still alive today, but were turned away when they traveled to the inauguration because of
communication problems. The Australian coastwatcher who dispatched the natives was also invited
to the White House.[4]
According to the US Senate Church Committee, Kennedy had an affair with
Judith Campbell Exner, who was simultaneously having an affair with Sam Giancana, the boss of the Chicago Mafia, while Giancana was conspiring
with the CIA to assassinate Fidel
Castro.

See biographies by V. Lasky (1963), R. Caro (1982), T. Sorenson (1988), G. Perret (2001), and R. Dallek (2003); T. H. White, The Making of the President, 1960 (1961); A. M. Schlesinger, Jr., A Thousand Days (1965); H. S. Parmet, JFK: The Presidency of John F. Kennedy (1983); R. Reeves, President Kennedy: Profile of Power (1993); S. Hersh, The Dark Side of Camelot (1997); E. R. May, The Kennedy Tapes (1997).
The Presidency
On the occasion of his visit to Ireland in 1963, President Kennedy joined with Irish
President Éamon de Valera to form The American Irish Foundation. The mission of this
organization was to foster connections between Americans of Irish descent and the country of their ancestry. Kennedy furthered
these connections of cultural solidarity by accepting a grant of armorial bearings from the
Chief Herald of Ireland.
The charisma of Kennedy and his family led to the figurative designation of
"Camelot" for his administration, credited by his widow to his affection for the
contemporary Broadway musical of the same name. She gave an
interview to Theodore H. White, where she mentioned Camelot (the musical),[8] and White later said that he had "found the headline".
Herbert S. Parmet, J. F. K.: The Presidency of John F. Kennedy (1983); Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., A Thousand Days (1965).
Coupled with the murder of his own brother, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, and that of Martin Luther King, Jr., the five
tumultuous years from 1963 to 1968 signaled a growing disillusionment within the well of hope for political and social change
which so defined the lives of those who lived through the 1960s. Kennedy's introduction of the U.S. to the Vietnam War preceded President Johnson's escalation of a conflict which contributed to a decade of national
difficulties and disappointment on the political landscape. The Watergate scandal of
President Richard Nixon's administration is widely recognized as being the final stroke in
this process of diminishing trust in government.


A number of critics argue that his reputation is undeserved. His immense popularity, according to some critics, was the result
of the optimistic beginnings of many programs declared to be of great benefit to the United States, its people, and various
global issues, and the national trauma of his assassination. The Civil Rights
Act which he sent to Congress in June 1963 was, in large part, conceived by his brother, Attorney General Robert F.
Kennedy, and it was signed into law by his successor, Lyndon Johnson, in 1964.
In 1946 Kennedy was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives from the solidly Democratic Eleventh District of Massachusetts. He was reelected in 1948 and 1950.

Arguing that "those who make peaceful revolution impossible, make violent revolution inevitable," Kennedy sought to contain
communism in Latin America by establishing the
Alliance for Progress, which sent foreign aid
to troubled countries in the region and sought greater human rights standards in the
region. He worked closely with Puerto Rican Governor Luis Muñoz Marín for the development of the
Alliance of Progress, as well as developments on the autonomy of the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico.


Herbert S. Parmet
Kennedy appointed the following Justices to the Supreme Court of the
United States: