
The remains of John Fitzgerald Kennedy, thirty-fifth
President of the United States of America, killed by an assassin's bullet,
were laid to rest today in the Arlington National Cemetery.
After the President's widow and the other mourners
had been seated, and after the special honor guard had formed at the base
of the cathedral steps opposite the Army Band, the body bearers moved to
a position behind the caisson. The cordon troops then presented arms and
the band played ruffles and flourishes, "Hail to the Chief," and the hymn
"Prayer for the Dead." On the hymn's first note, the body bearers took
the casket from the caisson. General Wehle then led the way up the cathedral
steps, followed by the national color detail, clergy, casket, personal
flag, and special honor guard.
As the cortege reached the cathedral, the caisson
was stopped at the entrance. A joint honor cordon of one officer and twenty-five
men lined the steps, and the US Army Band was in formation at the base
and to the right side of the steps. After the caisson came to a stop, Mrs.
Kennedy, without pause, led the marchers through the honor cordon into
the cathedral. Other family members, family friends, and invited dignitaries,
none of whom had marched in the procession, al­ready were seated. Among
them were Mrs. Rose Kennedy, the state and territorial governors, and former
Presidents Truman and Eisenhower.
Cardinal Cushing then conducted the service.
When he had finished, the escort troops saluted while the 3d Infantry battery
fired twenty-one guns. Cardinal Cushing pronounced the benediction. The
troops again saluted while the 3d Infantry firing party delivered three
volleys. The bugler sounded taps.
The Department of State, which was responsible
for arranging the presence of representatives of foreign governments, at
first had decided not to invite foreign dignitaries to attend or participate
in the ceremonies. The department reasoned that since there was very little
time to send out invitations before the funeral, some invitations might
reach their destinations late and cause deep embarrassment. The department
maintained this position until the morning of 23 November. By then, however,
certain foreign dignitaries had announced their intention of attending
the ceremonies as private persons, among them President Eamon de Valera
of Ireland, Chancellor Ludwig Erhard of West Germany, and Prime Minister
Sir Alec Douglas-Home of England. Around midday on the 23d, after word
was received that General Charles de Gaulle, President of France, and King
Baudouin I of Belgium planned to attend, the Department of State hastily
cabled formal invitations. A flood of acceptances followed. In all, ninety-two
representatives of foreign governments accepted, including eight heads
of state and ten prime ministers.
When the news of President Kennedy's death
reached Washington, planning was begun immediately for a State Funeral.
Frequently, officials entitled to State Funerals have been discreetly asked
for their preferences in regard to the ceremonies and contingency plans
have been framed accordingly, but no such information existed for President
Kennedy. Responsibility for planning the funeral largely rested with Maj.
Gen. Philip C. Wehle, commander of the Military District of Washington,
who, under existing directives, was in charge of all State Funeral ceremonies
held in Washington, D.C. General Wehle had as a basic guide the book of
funeral plans and policies published in 1958, but there were to be numerous
adjustments, some made with extremely brief notice, and most of them efforts
to meet the wishes of the next of kin.
LAST FORMAL ACT
The escort units turned off Connecticut Avenue
onto Rhode Island Avenue to  reach St. Matthew's, marched past the
cathedral, made three left turns to circle the irregular block, and halted
on Connecticut Avenue facing south. The Black Watch group and the representatives
of veterans' organizations then left the formation, the latter proceeding
to Arlington National Cemetery to attend the graveside rites. The remainder
of the escort stood fast, awaiting the conclusion of the funeral service.
The motorcade consisting of a police escort,
General Wehle in his sedan, the ambulance, in which Mrs. Kennedy and Robert
Kennedy rode, and three cars bearing members of the President's staff departed
for the Naval Medical Center. General Wehle used the helicopter that was
to have carried the President's body to send Lieutenant Bird and the second
team of body bearers to the medical center so that they would be present
when the ambulance arrived.
Second march unit 
US Navy Band (91)
Company, Army National Guard (89)
Company, Army Reserve (89)
Company, Marine Corps Reserve (89)
Company, Navy Reserve (89)
Squadron, Air National Guard (89)
Squadron, Air Force Reserve (89)
Company, Coast Guard Reserve (89)
Some time during the night Mrs. Kennedy, accompanied
by Mr. Robert Kennedy, the Attorney-General, came back once again to pray
for her husband. The pride of family did not demand of her this time to
bring the children. Her favourite Kennedy brother, who in happier times
shielded her from the ebullience of the family, stood back in the shadows,
among them the long shadows of the statues of other assassinated Presidents,
Lincoln and Garfield. The slow-moving columns of mourners came to a halt.
Cortege 
Special honor guard 
National color detail 
Clergy
Caisson and body bearers 
Personal flag bearers 
Caparisoned horse
Kennedy family
It was now firmly established that the funeral
service would be held at St. Matthew's Cathedral in Washington and that
burial would take place in Arlington National Cemetery. The composition
and order of the main funeral procession had yet to be fully determined.
In particular, provisions had to be made for the diplomatic corps and other
representatives of foreign nations. But it was decided that in the move
from the Capitol to St. Matthew's Cathedral the procession would halt at
the White House. There, members of the Kennedy family were to leave the
cars in which they had ridden from the Capitol and, joined by President
Johnson and other dignitaries, were to proceed on foot to the cathedral.
Ceremonies were to begin at the Capitol at
1030 on the 25th. Before that hour, 1,200 troops cordoned the route of
the funeral procession from the Capitol to the cathedral. The Army, Marine
Corps, Navy, and Air Force each supplied three hundred men for the street
cordon and provided an additional forty-four men each to cordon the longer
route from the cathedral to the cemetery. The plan called for the necessary
repositioning and adding of troops to be accomplished while the funeral
service was in progress.
SENATE'S SYMPATHY
The escort commander, General Wehle, led the
way up the steps. Behind him came the special honor guard, the national
color detail, the clergy, the casket, the personal flag, and the Kennedy
family and other mourners. After the procession entered the rotunda, the
band ceased playing the hymn and the honor cordon ordered arms.
The procession from the White House arrived
at the Capitol about 1350 where part of it halted at the east steps. The
drummers, the Navy escort company, and the joint group of twenty servicemen
that had flanked the caisson continued marching and left the ceremonial
area. After those who had ridden in automobiles had dismounted, the chauffeurs
drove the cars to a holding area on the south side of the plaza. The members
of the procession meanwhile were guided to positions for the procession
into the rotunda.
The Eternal Flame at the John F. Kennedy Gravesite
Third march unit 
US Air Force Band (91)
Representatives, 22 national veterans' organizations
Platoon, Special Forces, US Army (38) 
Company, US Marine Corps (89)
The sad ceremonial began today soon after 10,
on a very cold but brilliantly sunny morning. Inside the gleaming white
Capitol the Senate had met briefly to pass a resolution of sympathy for
Mrs. Kennedy; outside, the reds and blues and blacks of the cortege arranged
themselves on the broad plaza.
Out of awareness of President Kennedy's admiration
of a silent drill he had seen performed by Irish Guards (military cadets)
while visiting Ireland, Mrs. Kennedy also asked that this group perform
the same drill during the graveside rites. Accordingly, after arranging
to have the Irish Guards present, it was scheduled that they would perform
their drill at the foot of the grave and then join the military escort
at its more distant graveside position.
At nine o'clock - perhaps soon after the President's
son, John, had awakened for his third birthday - the great gates of the
Capitol were closed. There were protests, and scuffling, but the police
soon put an end to the unseemliness.
The awful power that made all this possible
was not much in evidence today. Fifty fighter aircraft, representing the
components of the Union, roared overhead followed by Air Force No. 1, the
Presidents's personal aircraft, that took him to Vienna for that fateful
meeting with Mr. Khrushchev, and afterwards to London, Paris, Berlin, and
Rome in pursuit of interdependence.
But if his work is completed by his successors,
especially the search for peace abroad and the struggle for civil rights
at home, history might give him that place in American history. Then this
place, in view of the memorials of the great Presidents, will be splendidly
appropriate. For the time being it is among a brave company.
Police escort
In a wide departure from customary graveside
procedure in which a band, standing fast in formation, plays an appropriate
hymn as the casket is carried from the caisson to the grave, Mrs. Kennedy
preferred that the Air Force Bagpipe Band march past the gravesite playing
"Mist Covered Mountain" while the movement of the casket was taking place.
The Air Force group was so scheduled, and a route permitting the group
to perform as requested was marked out at the gravesite.
Throughout the ceremony, President Johnson,
whose car on arrival was screened by trotting Secret Service agents, stood
sombrely alone. All the power and the glory had descended suddenly upon
him, and now this last act had been done for his predecessor, he looked
lonely and shocked. The Secret Service men had their backs to him, watching
the assembly, their faces impassive and some chewing gum. The realities
of American life were still there.
Cardinal Cushing, his gaunt voice once again
a surprise as it issued from his medieval face, said the burial service,
and Mrs. Kennedy and the President's two brothers lit a flame. Then the
pall bearers removed "Old Glory" from the coffin, a 21-gun salute and three
musket volleys were fired. Taps (Last Post) sounded, and the final formality
was over. The coffin was left on a chrome bier above the grave.
In the cold night air she at first dismissed
her car and began to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue, along which less than
three years ago she had ridden in triumph with her husband after his inauguration.
Perhaps the memories came crowding too much, perhaps the uselessness of
this last visit became apparent; silently the black car came up again,
surrounded by watchful Secret Service agents, and she was gone.
At 10.22 Mrs. Kennedy emerged from the White
House accompanied by her brothers-in-law and sisters-in-law, her nephews
and nieces. The seven great black cars made their way down the broad expanse
of Pennsylvania Avenue through silent crowds whose predominantly youthful
character spoke much about the late President.
IN THE SHADOWS
After the ceremony at the Capitol, final plans
for the remaining ceremonies were completed during meetings held at the
White House, Arlington National Cemetery, and Headquarters, Military District
of Washington. The composition and movement of the main funeral procession
were two of the first matters settled. In the process several changes were
made to a preliminary organization of the military escort as a result of
requests by the President's widow. Whereas the preliminary plan called
for the Army Band to lead the first march unit of the escort, Mrs. Kennedy
asked that the Marine Band be used. The Army Band subsequently was scheduled
to participate in the arrival ceremony at St. Matthew's Cathedral. Mrs.
Kennedy also wanted a company of marines that had been earmarked to move
in the first march unit to be relocated at the rear of the escort, hence
close to the caisson, and requested that a platoon of Army Special Forces
troops be added to the procession and positioned just ahead of the Marine
company.
After the ceremony at Arlington, the foreign
visitors went to the White House to pay their respects to Mrs. Kennedy
and, later, to the State Department, where President Johnson greeted each
of them individually at a reception.
Cardinal Cushing of Boston, who was to conduct
the Low Mass, led coffin up the aisle. It was 12.15. Mr. Luigi Vena, who
had sung at Mr. Kennedy's wedding, had come to sing the "Ave Maria" at
his funeral. The Most Rev. P. M. Hannan, Auxiliary Bishop of Washington,
read passages from the scriptures which the late President had used in
his speeches, and finished by reading the entire inaugural address delivered
in January, 1961.
The special honor guard, the clergy, and the
Kennedy family were to ride in automobiles as far as the White House, then,
except for the President's two children who would remain in an automobile,
were to continue to the cathedral on foot. Other persons scheduled to join
the cortege at the White House also were to proceed on foot. These included
President and Mrs. Johnson, cabinet members and military service secretaries,
members of Congress, justices of the Supreme Court, members of the White
House staff, personal friends, members of the diplomatic corps, and a large
assemblage of foreign dignitaries.
21-GUN SALUTE
On the evening of 24 November, General Wehle's
headquarters published and distributed the final plans for the remaining
ceremonies. General Wehle then instructed representatives of all government
agencies and the commanders of all military units scheduled to participate.
The meeting lasted until 0200 on 25 November.
After the final plans were drafted on 24 November,
only one more change was made in the composition of the procession to St.
Matthew's Cathedral: a small contingent of bagpipers, the Black Watch of
the Royal Highland Regiment, was to join the procession at the White House.
This unprecedented participation of a foreign unit in the funeral for a
President of the United States was the result of another of Mrs. Kennedy's
requests. The pipers were to fall in behind the Marine company at the rear
of the military escort. The procession would be further lengthened when
the persons assembled at the White House joined the march. The full cortege
would then observe the following order of march from the White House to
St. Matthew's Cathedral:
Then to the White House where the concourse
of famous men was waiting. Mrs. Kennedy dismounted and, behind the caisson,
led the most distinguished company of dignitories ever assembled in the
187 years of this great Republic, come in honour of her young husband.
She walked briskly, her brothers-in-law on either side, the new President
behind. The representatives of the world followed, a phalanx arranged in
the alphabetical order of their countries. The procession moved away to
the funeral.
After placing the casket on the catafalque,
the body bearers stood fast while the colors were posted. (Because the
base for the President's flag was inadequate, the flag bearer had to hold
the flag in place throughout the ceremony.) The commander and first relief
of the guard of honor came in next through the west entrance; the commander
immediately dismissed the body bearers and posted his first relief at the
bier. The full guard was a joint group of five officers and thirty-two
men representing all five uniformed services.
At Military District of Washington headquarters,
General Wehle meanwhile had opened a funeral operations center, from which
all funeral details, administrative as well as ceremonial, would be controlled.
As the first order of business, members of the center staff flashed alerts
to military and civil units and agencies which would be or were likely
to be involved in the funeral. This task included communicating with Congressional
officials whose permission and support were needed in order to use the
rotunda of the Capitol for the lying in state ceremony.
The motorcade reached the White House at 0430
on 23 November, entering the grounds through one of the two gates on Pennsylvania
Avenue. Posted at the gate to escort the ambulance to the North Portico
was a detachment of twelve marines. A little more than an hour before,
Mr. Shriver had asked for a small troop unit to act as escort and at 0330,
a White House aide had telephoned the commanding officer of the Marine
Barracks in Washington for twelve to twenty-four men in full-dress uniform.
An Army bus supplied by the Military District of Washington with an Armed
Forces Police escort went to the barracks and returned with twelve men
of the Marine Drill Team in full dress in less than twenty minutes.
About 1330 (eastern standard time) on 22 November
1963, President John F. Kennedy was shot by an assassin while riding in
a motorcade through Dallas, Texas. The President was rushed to Parkland
Memorial Hospital in Dallas for emergency treatment and at 1400 he was
pronounced dead. An hour later President Kennedy's body was taken to the
Dallas airport for transportation back to Washington aboard Air Force One,
the Presidential plane. After a wait at the field while Lyndon B. Johnson
was sworn in as President aboard Air Force One, the plane departed about
1540. There was no formal departure ceremony.
ORDER OF MARCH, PROCESSION FROM THE US CAPITOL
TO THE WHITE HOUSE, CEREMONY FOR PRESIDENT
JOHN F. KENNEDY
At the end of the service, the body bearers
moved the casket up the center aisle of the cathedral to join the national
color detail at the main door. The joint honor cordon on the steps outside
presented arms, and the Army Band played ruffles and flourishes, "Hail
to' the Chief," and the hymn "Holy God, We Praise Thy Name." As the hymn
was begun, the body bearers carried the casket through the joint honor
cordon and placed it on the caisson. The family and others observed this
ceremony from the cathedral entrance. Once the casket was on the caisson
the honor cordon ordered arms and the family and guests were escorted to
their cars for the procession to Arlington National Cemetery.
Police escort
Escort commander
Commander of troops
First march unit
US Marine Band (91)
Company, cadets, US Military Academy (89)
Company, midshipmen, US Naval Academy (89)
Company, cadets, US Air Force Academy (89)
Company, cadets, US Coast Guard Academy (89)
Company, US Army (89)
Company, US Navy (89)
Squadron, US Air Force (89)
Company, US Coast Guard (89)
Company, servicewomen, composite (82)
ADDRESS RE-READ
The National Cemetery is part of a 5,000-acre
tract granted in 1669 to one, Robert Howson, who sold it for six hogshead
of tobacco. From the mansion above the President's grave, built by the
adopted grandson of George Washington, General Lee resigned from the Union
army and rode off to command the Confederate forces in the war between
the states. With all respect to the men who lie here, who gave their lives
for the republic, an Englishman cannot but feel that some of his roots
are here.
The route of the funeral procession from the
Capitol to St. Matthew's Cathedral lay over Constitution Avenue, Pennsylvania
Avenue, 15th Street, and again over Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House,
then over 17th Street, Connecticut Avenue, and Rhode Island Avenue to the
cathedral.
The service ended, Cardinal Cushing, in his
brilliant orange robes, led the coffin from the church. Mrs Kennedy led
her children out. As the band played "Holy God We Praise Thy Name", little
John, in a sky blue coat to match his sister's, stepped forward for a moment
and put his hand to his forelock as if in salute. And so almost an hour
and a half after arriving at the cathedral, the slow procession moved away
on the long drive to a grassy slope below the old Lee mansion, where President
Kennedy's grave will look down for as long as this Republic can expect,
across the Potomac river to the Lincoln Memorial and the city he so completely
dominated for so few brief years.
When they reached the grave, the body bearers
backed the casket onto the placer, since the hurriedly constructed torch
at the head of the grave prevented use of the conventional method. At this
moment, while the superintendent was showing members of the family to their
graveside positions, the flyover took place. Fifty fighter aircraft, thirty-
Air Force F-105's and twenty Navy F-4B's, passed overhead in three V formations,
one plane missing from the last V in tribute to the fallen leader. Following
the fighters came Air Force One, piloted by Col. James B. Swindal. After
the tribute from the air the Irish Guards executed their silent drill;
at its conclusion they left the graveside and stood with the escort units.
The last request was difficult to meet. About
1500 on 24 November, the superintendent of Arlington National Cemetery,
John Metzler, received word from the White House through the Military District
of Washington funeral operations center that Mrs. Kennedy wished to have
constructed at the gravesite an "eternal flame" which she would light during
the burial service. Mr. Metzler turned to the post engineer at Fort Myer,
Lieutenant Colonel Bernard G. Carrol, for help. Using commercial components
Colonel Carrol, assisted by several other engineers and specialists, constructed
and installed the mechanism by midnight. From wire, they made a frame shaped
like half a ball, three feet in diameter at the base and eighteen inches
high, which was later covered with evergreen boughs. This frame supported
a Hawaiian torch. Over three hundred feet of copper tubing ran from the
torch to a tank of propane gas. (Later a permanent gas line was installed.)
The organization of the procession would undergo
other changes for the movement from St. Matthew's Cathedral to Arlington
National Cemetery. The Black Watch pipers were to leave the military escort
at the cathedral, as were the representatives of veterans' organizations
moving with the escort's third march unit. Originally, these representatives
were scheduled to attend the funeral service, but a lack of sufficient
seating space in the cathedral forced a cancellation of this plan. As an
alternative, they were allotted space at the graveside rites, and transportation
was provided them from the cathedral to the cemetery. A motorcade of 107
vehicles also was organized for the movement of the cortege to the cemetery.
To join the cortege at the cathedral were former Presidents Truman and
Eisenhower and state and territorial governors, all of whom were invited
to attend the funeral service.
CROWDING MEMORIES
Following the posting of the guard, Senate
Majority Leader Mike Mansfield, Chief Justice
Earl
Warren, and Speaker of the House John W. McCormack, in that order,
delivered short eulogies. When the speakers had finished, Mrs. Kennedy
went forward, knelt briefly at the bier, and left the rotunda with Robert
Kennedy by the east entrance. The other mourners then left and after the
rotunda was clear it was opened to the public. People began filing by the
bier at 1400; a great number were still waiting to enter when the rotunda
was closed to the public at 0930 on 25 November.
Mrs. Kennedy and other members of the Kennedy
family in five cars arrived at the Capitol from the White House at 1038.
Mrs. Kennedy, accompanied by her husband's two brothers, Robert and Edward,
entered the rotunda for a final visit, then returned to the plaza and joined
other family members near the band.
The departure from the cathedral was somewhat
confused. Because of the mistaken, if well intended, intervention of a
Presidential aide, few of the cars were in the proper order; and because
the cathedral stood within a limited street network, there was little that
could be done to correct the situation without undue delay. Thus, with
many of the cars still out of prescribed order, the cortege proceeded by
way of Connecticut Avenue, 17th Street, Constitution Avenue, and Henry
Bacon Drive, then counterclockwise around the Lincoln Memorial, across
Memorial Bridge, and over Memorial Drive to the cemetery Memorial Gate. 
Just short of the gate, the greater part of the military escort, which
was not scheduled to participate in the graveside rites, turned left on
Arlington Ridge Road and proceeded to dismissal points along that road
where they were picked up by buses. Of the escort units, the Marine Band
and one platoon each of the Regular Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Air Force,
and Coast Guard entered the cemetery.
Upon receiving the first grim report from Dallas,
Paul C. Miller, Chief of Ceremonies and Special Events for the Military
District of Washington, notified the Office of the Military Aide to the
President of the district's readiness to act. Shortly afterward, he was
summoned to the White House office of Ralph A. Dungan, Special Assistant
to the President. Already in the office when he arrived was R. Sargent
Shriver, Director of the Peace Corps and brother-in-law of President Kennedy,
who was there to represent the Kennedy family. These three men began at
once the difficult task of arranging funeral ceremonies under the pressure
of time and without direct contact with the immediate family.
Upon entering the rotunda, the special honor
guard turned left and stopped at a position near the east entrance. The
national color detail, the clergy, the body bearers and casket, and the
personal flag bearer turned right, moved in a semicircle, then turned back
toward the east entrance to reach the Lincoln catafalque in the center
of the hall. The family party also turned right after entering and stopped
at a position near the east entrance.
It was the last formal act of the tragedy that
began in Dallas, Texas, three days ago, and after the prayers of the burial
service there was nothing left to be said. The other branches of Amercan
Government, the Congress and the judiciary, had delivered their eulogies,
and it was left to the armed services to provide military honours.
The halt at the White House lasted only a few
minutes. The members of the Kennedy family left the vehicles that had brought
them from the Capitol and took their places behind the caisson, the Presidential
flag, and the caparisoned horse. President and Mrs. Johnson took positions
behind the Kennedy family, but ahead of a limousine bearing Caroline and
John Kennedy; the other dignitaries who had assembled at the White House
fell in behind in the scheduled order. The Black Watch pipers played "The
Brown Haired Maiden" as the cortege then moved to rejoin the procession.
When it reached the military escort on 17th Street, the full procession
resumed the march to the cathedral.
A column of ten automobiles followed: The first
carried Mrs. Kennedy, her two children, John and Caroline, Robert F. Kennedy,
and President and Mrs. Johnson; the second, two of President Kennedy's
sisters and their husbands; the third, the widow's stepfather and mother,
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh D. Auchincloss, and others of the Auchincloss family;
the fourth, Mrs. Robert F. Kennedy, several of her children, and Sargent
Shriver. (Mrs. Shriver, another of President Kennedy's sisters, Rose Kennedy,
the President's mother, and Edward M. Kennedy, the President's younger
brother, were en route from Hyannisport, Massachusetts, at this time.)
In the remaining automobiles were a number of employees of the Kennedy
family and of the White House, and security officials.
The caisson was halted at the cocomat runner.
The automobiles bearing the Kennedy family, President Johnson and his party,
and the foreign dignitaries parked farther to the rear along Sheridan Drive.
The foreign officials dismounted and moved to the graveside. Under the
guidance of Superintendent Metzler, the Kennedy family and President Johnson
and his party remained for the time being in their automobiles in order
that their arrival at the grave would coincide with a flyover by Air Force
and Navy jet fighters and by the Presidential plane, Air Force One. After
about four minutes, the cemetery superintendent assisted the members of
the Kennedy family from their cars and signaled secret service men to help
President Johnson and his party.
He joined a great company of men who had fought
and died in every American conflict from the Revolutionary War, because
he first served his country as a junior naval officer in the distant Pacific.
This was his right as a warrior of the Republic, but today's solemnities
were unprecedented in American presidential history; from all over the
globe kings, presidents, and representatives of hundreds of millions of
people came to honour the passing of the young man who had won the world's
most powerful elective office with a bare handful of votes and transformed
it into a great power for peace.
Up to this point, as an inescapable result
of the speed with which events had taken place and the state of shock that
had overtaken a great number of the people involved, little of the existing
general plan for a State Funeral had been followed. The ceremony at the
White House, on the other hand, was nearly according to the plan. From
the White House, invitations were sent by telegram and telephone to the
official government family and the diplomatic corps to pay their respects
following a private family mass in the East Room at 1030 on 23 November.
From 1100 until 1900, the governmental and diplomatic officials presented
themselves at the White House according to an established schedule:
When this last personal communion was over,
she arose, still beautifully impressive and dry-eyed, and looked wonderingly
into the eyes, some blinded with tears and others merely curious, of those
waiting people. Then slowly and indomitably she walked down the steps with
her fair-haired brother-in-law.
It was a martial but dignified scene, with
none of the arrogance of militarism. The Marine band leading stepped out
bravely but with sadness in each heart. The Stars and Stripes fluttering
slightly ahead of the caisoon, the presidential flag behind and a caparisoned
horse, riderless, prancing.
When the funeral procession reached the White
House, all escort units save the company of marines at the very rear moved
past it, turned right off Pennsylvania Avenue onto 17th Street, and halted
after the last unit had made the turn. In accord with another of Mrs. Kennedy's
wishes the left platoon of the Marine company, as it reached the White
House, turned in the northeast gate and led the cortege onto North Portico
Drive. As the cortege moved around the drive, the US Naval Academy Choir
on the White House lawn sang "Londonderry Air" and "Eternal Father, Strong
to Save." The remainder of the Marine company meanwhile continued on Pennsylvania
Avenue, then halted at the northwest gate just in front of its left platoon
now halted on the drive. At this point the Black Watch pipers, who had
waited near the northwest gate, took position immediately behind the Marine
platoon.
When dawn came up over the Potomac, tens of
thousands were still waiting outside the Capitol to pay their last respects.
They had begun to move through the Rotunda at about 6,000 an hour, but
the queue still lengthened; it stretched for more than an mile at one time,
and the pace was doubled.
OBSCURE ORIGINS
Throughout the scheduled hours a joint service
cordon positioned on North Portico Drive, at the North Portico entrance,
and in the hallway guided visiting dignitaries to and through the East
Room.
Mrs. Kennedy, supported by the Kennedy family,
among them the President's mother, took up position at the right of the
grave with the late President's personal staff in the rear.
As these units led the procession into the
cemetery, moving by the Colonial Fife and Drum Corps which had formed on
the lawn at Memorial Gate, the cemetery superintendent met the column and
guided it to the gravesite. The procession moved via Schley, Sherman, and
Sheridan Drives. The route was roped off and cordoned by troops from the
3d Infantry, who presented arms in ripples as the procession passed. Upon
reaching the gravesite, the Marine Band and five platoons of escort troops
immediately moved to their graveside positions. Already in position was
a group of Army Special Forces troops lining both sides of a cocomat that
ran from Sheridan Drive to the grave, and at the foot of the grave stood
the thirty members of the Irish Guard. Also in place to perform, as Mrs.
Kennedy had requested, was the Air Force Bagpipe Band. In addition, an
Army bugler, a 3d Infantry firing party, and the 3d Infantry saluting battery
were in their positions, ready to participate in the final rites.
During the daylight hours of 23 November, gun
salutes, one round each half hour, were fired at all U.S. Army installations
equipped to do so, worldwide. These salutes had been ordered on the 22d
by the Army Chief of Staff, who, at the same time, directed that the flags
at all Army installations be flown at half-staff for thirty days.
Fifteen minutes later Mrs. Kennedy, lightly
veiled, walked slowly up the huge white steps between her husband's brothers,
Robert and Edward, and into the Capitol Rotunda where they knelt for a
moment, before the great bronze casket containing the last earthly remains
of her husband was carried out into the sunshine. Then out again into the
chill morning air to watch the coffin, draped in the Stars and Stripes,
borne out by nine men of the services. Arms presented, and "Hail to the
Chief" played by the Marine band as the coffin came into view. And solemn
music as it was borne slowly down the stairway to the heavy caisson.
The American forces are no less jealous of
their prerogatives than others, but generous to the last the main military
exercise, the reversing of arms was given to a troup of Irish Army cadets
to perform. Their presence with that of the Black Watch pipers earlier,
at the specific request of Mrs. Kennedy, was perhaps recognition not only
of Mr. Kennedy's origins but also of the first origins of this country.
At the Capitol, a joint honor cordon lined
the east steps for the ceremony of carrying President Kennedy's body from
the rotunda. Inside the rotunda waited the clergy, body bearers, and color
bearers. On the plaza, the caisson was in a central position at the foot
of the steps. To the immediate south was the US Coast Guard Band. To the
north were the special honor guard (the joint Chiefs of Staff and the military
aides to the President) and the escort commander, General Wehle. The escort
units were along Constitution Avenue, from 3d Street east­ward, aligned
for the procession.
Beyond plans for the composition and movement
of the funeral procession on 24 November, other arrangements were made
to carry out further wishes of Mrs. Kennedy: the US Naval Academy Choir
was scheduled to perform two selections at the White House during the time
the funeral procession was halted there while en route from the Capitol
to the cathedral; the 3d Infantry's Colonial Fife and Drum Corps, which
Mrs. Kennedy wanted somewhere along the procession's route of march to
the cemetery, was assigned a position on the green at the Memorial Gate
entrance to the cemetery, although it was not scheduled to play.
Nine pipers of The Black Watch, the regiment
which played so recently for Mr. Kennedy on the White House lawn, led the
march part of the way from the White House to the cathedral, lending further
international flavour to the occasion and symbolizing the special relationship
between Britain and the United States.
In preparation for the ceremony at the Capitol,
government and diplomatic corps officials meanwhile had been ushered to
designated positions in the rotunda. Outside, an honor cordon of seventy
Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Air Force, and Coast Guard members lined the
east steps. Thirty of President Kennedy's aides and advisers stood aligned
at the top of the steps. On the plaza, the US Air Force Band formed at
the south side of the steps.
At 10.50 the seven greys moved off - a brief
pause while the procession formed, and then muffled drums and the lumbering
caisson jolted slowly forward, casting its long shadow on the street.
In a way, the history of decades was there
today. The Emperor of Ethiopia, who appealed in vain to the League of Nations
and is now secure in a world system that, in the final test, still depends
upon this republic; the Duke of Edinburgh and the Prime Minister, President
de Gaulle, the King of the Belgians, the Dutch Consort, and others representing
the most powerful alliance for peace in the history of mankind because
of the leadership provided by this republic.
SEARCH FOR PEACE
Air Force One landed at Andrews Air Force Base
at 1805. Dignitaries who waited at the field included the Secretary of
Defense, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Chief Justice of the United
States, some members of Congress, a number of diplomats, and Robert F.
Kennedy, the Attorney General and brother of the slain President. As the
plane came to a stop, a cargo lift carrying Lieutenant Bird and his first
team of body bearers moved to the aircraft. After the hatch was opened,
however, Brigadier General Godfrey T. McHugh, Air Force Aide to the President,
who was on board, notified Lieutenant Bird that secret service men would
carry the casket from the plane. The secret service men were obliged nevertheless
to call on the trained body bearers for help in moving the casket from
the lift to the ambulance.
By 1600 word reached Washington that Air Force
One, bearing President Kennedy's body, was due at Andrews Air Force Base
at 1800. From there, a helicopter furnished by the White House Executive
Flight Detachment was to transport the body to the Naval Medical Center
in Bethesda, Maryland, for autopsy. As plans stood at that moment, Gawler's
morticians were then to take the body to their establishment for preparation.
Afterward the President's body was to be escorted to the White House where
it was to lie until 24 November. On the 24th the body was to be taken to
the Capitol to lie in state in the rotunda. At this point neither the place
of burial nor the exact wishes of the next of kin regarding the funeral
service were known.
At the medical center there was some confusion
when the President's body arrived by ambulance instead of by helicopter.
As instructed, Navy troops had formed a cordon from the center's helipad
to the rear (morgue) entrance to keep the way clear. But when the motorcade
arrived it had no such protection and a crowd of spectators surged about
it. With some difficulty, Lieutenant Bird and his body bearer team managed
to reach the ambulance and carry the casket to the morgue. The team remained
in the hallway as a guard.
At the press corps' own request, a large delegation
of the press followed the cars in the procession on foot. Bringing up the
rear was another detail of Metropolitan Police on foot. During the march,
many in the large crowd of spectators evidently interpreted the presence
of the press corps group as an invitation for the public to join the procession.
At first police and troops blocked off the marching spectators, but as
the procession drew nearer the Capitol they allowed the people to fall
in behind the police.
Inside the rotunda the guard of honor was dismissed
after the Kennedy visit. The body bearers secured the casket and, preceded
by the national color detail and the clergy and followed by the personal
flag bearer, carried it from the hall. (Diagram 59) The formation halted
at the top of the east steps. The honor cordon presented arms while the
band sounded ruffles and flourishes, played "Hail to the Chief," and then
began the hymn "O God of Loveliness." On the hymn's first note, the procession
moved down the steps to the caisson. After the body bearers secured the
casket on the caisson the band stopped playing and those who were to move
with the procession went to their assigned positions for the march. The
body bearers did not join the cortege but were sent by bus to the cathedral
to be on hand when the procession arrived.
The US Marine Band began to play the hymn "Eternal
Father, Strong to Save," and at the same time the body bearers folded the
flag and handed it to Mr. Metzler. Then, as the hymn was concluded, Cardinal
Cushing stepped forward and blessed the eternal flame. Mr. Metzler presented
the folded flag to Mrs. Kennedy. Maj. Stanley P. Converse, executive officer
of the 1st Battalion, 3d Infantry, then lighted a taper and handed it to
Mrs. Kennedy, who lighted the torch that would become the eternal flame,
thus ending the ceremonies for her husband. Army Special Forces troops,
although they were not scheduled to do so, posted themselves at the four
corners of the grave.
Between 1600 and 1800, General Wehle organized
a joint service ceremony for receiving President Kennedy's body at Andrews
Air Force Base and made arrangements for its reception at the Naval Medical
Center and at the White House. A Navy security guard was posted at the
medical center, and a guard detail was set up to stay with the body until
it was borne to the White House. An honor guard composed of members of
all the armed services was to be stationed at the White House when the
President's body arrived. In preparation for the ceremony at the White
House, General Wehle requested that the replica of the Lincoln catafalque,
used in 1958 during the ceremonies for the Unknown Soldiers of World War
II and the Korean War, be brought from storage at Arlington National Cemetery
and set up in the White House. At Andrews Base Air Force troops were posted
as an honor cordon, and troops from all services were to act as body bearers.
Finding that more men had reported than were needed, 1st Lt. Samuel R.
Bird, a 3d Infantry officer in charge of all body bearers, formed two joint
service body bearer teams and placed the remaining men with the honor cordon.
General Wehle had also arranged to have military police from the Military
District of Washington at the airfield. Although he had been informed that
the President's body was to be taken to the medical center by helicopter,
he asked that a Navy ambulance be provided at the field. (Jacqueline Kennedy,
the President's widow, later decided to use the ambulance.)
The procession formed on the North Portico
Drive, which also was lined by an honor cordon. (Diagram 54) About 1300,
the body bearers carried President Kennedy's casket from the East Room,
passed through an honor cordon posted in the hallway and on the portico
itself, and placed the casket on the caisson. No music was played during
the departure ceremony, nor would there be any during the march-only the
beat of the muffled drums.
Earlier the members of Congress and their wives
had formed a half circle below the grave, and when the foreign dignitaries
arrived en masse protocol broke down. The pomp and circumstance of most
of the earth were caught in a crush, and the more determined came to the
fore, among them President de Gaulle and Mr. Mikoyan.
But on the ground, among the oaks and the dogwoods,
in the hard cold light of a North American autumn, only the bright coloured
cloth of ceremonial was to be seen; the Marine band in the once hated red
coats, the Army special forces in green commando berets, the blues of the
Navy and Air Force. As the caisson came slowly up the hill and the men
of religion, or rather of the many religions that have found freedom in
this land, went down to meet it, the United States Air Force bagpipe band
played a lament - a Negro, wearing the kilt, at the big drum.
Special honor guard
National color detail 
Clergy
Caisson
Personal flag bearer
Caparisoned horse 
Kennedy family 
President and Mrs. Johnson Kennedy children
(in limousine)
Foreign delegations
Supreme Court justices
Cabinet members
Members of the Congress
Presidential assistants
Personal friends
White House staff
Sir David Ormsby-Gore, the British Ambassodor,
had been asked to represent Sir Winston and Lady Churchill, and Mr. Macmillan
was represented by the Duke of Devonshire, whose brother was married to
a sister of Mr. Kennedy.
After the participants were in place, and on
signal from the site control officer, the joint honor cordon presented
arms. The Air Force Band then sounded four ruffles and flourishes and played
"Hail to the Chief." Ordinarily this music is played at 120 beats to the
minute; but at Mrs. Kennedy's request, it was played dirge adagio, or at
86 beats to the minute. The band then began the Navy hymn "Eternal Father,
Strong to Save." The saluting battery from the 3d Infantry had been posted
near the Senate garage at Louisiana Avenue and D Street. At the first note
of the Navy hymn, the battery began a 21-gun salute, spacing the rounds
five seconds apart. At the same time, the body bearers removed the casket
from the caisson.
When the body bearers had carried the casket
part of the way up the steps Cardinal Richard J. Cushing, who would celebrate
the pontifical requiem mass for President Kennedy, appeared before them
to bless the casket, a normal part of the mass. The body bearers were obliged
to halt in an awkward position on the steps, with the weight of the casket
distributed unevenly, and were able to maintain their position only with
difficulty. After the blessing, the procession continued into the cathedral
where the casket was placed on a movable bier and wheeled to the front
of the room. Cardinal Cushing then conducted the requiem mass.
Kings and silent crowds pay homage
Screen of secret servicemen guard Mr. Johnson's
car
The presence of Mr. Mikoyan, First Deputy Prime
Minister of the Soviet Union, and an Armenian of equally obscure origins,
was a reminder that the late President and Commander-in-Chief, who controlled
the most dreadful weapons of destruction, took the first purposeful and
successful steps towards disarmament. The Soviet presence was a fitting
epitaph.
Metropolitan Police on foot headed the procession,
followed by General Wehle and a joint service drum detail with four snare
drummers from each service, one bass drummer each from the Army and Marine
Corps, and a drum major and leader from the Army. After the drummers came
a Navy escort company of four officers, three petty officers, and eighty-six
enlisted men. Next came a special honor guard composed of the joint Chiefs
of Staff and led by General Maxwell D. Taylor. The White House military
aides, Major General Chester V. Clifton of
the Army, Captain Tazewell Shepard of the Navy, and Brigadier General Godfrey
T. McHugh of the Air Force, followed them. Behind these officers was the
national color de­tail, two men from the Army and one each from the
Marine Corps, Navy, Air Force, and Coast Guard. Three members of the clergy
were next in the procession the Very Reverend Francis B. Sayre, Jr., dean
of Washington National Cathedral; the Right Reverend John S. Spencer of
Sacred Heart Shrine; and the Very Reverend K. V. Kazanjian, rector of St.
Mary's Armenian Apostolic Church. After the clergy came the caisson, drawn
by matched grays. Twenty servicemen flanked the caisson, ten on a side.
Each group of ten included two men from each of the services, these ordered
front to rear according to the seniority of the service: Army, Marine Corps,
Navy, Air Force, and Coast Guard. Behind the caisson President Kennedy's
personal flag was carried by Seaman E. Nemuth of the Navy, who was followed
by the body bearer team under Lieutenant Bird and Pfc. Arthur A. Carl­son
of the 3d Infantry, leading the caparisoned horse, Black
Jack.
After the autopsy the morticians from Gawler's,
for reasons of security and speed, prepared the body at the center rather
than at their own facility. At this time the body was transferred to a
mahogany casket which the body bearer team draped with a flag supplied
by the morticians. Mrs. Kennedy and the group that had accompanied her
to the medical center then came from the hospital suite where they had
waited, the casket was placed in the ambulance, and the motorcade, led
by General Wehle, proceeded to the White House where the President's body
would lie in the East Room.
At St. Matthew's Cathedral, in the heart of
Washington, Mrs. Kennedy led her two children up the steps of the cathedral,
followed by members of the family, the President and Mrs. Johnson, crowned
heads, elected heads of state of all races, creeds and customs. General
de Gaulle, in uniform, a massive figure; Chancellor Erhard of Germany;
the Emperor Haile Selassie; and the Duke of Edinburgh.
There are, no doubt, other great and good men
no less anxious for peace, but it is the power and the glory of this Republic
that at this moment in history only its President and Commander-in-Chief
has the required authority. Mr. Kennedy also had the will, and if it was
first shaped in some obscure Irish town it is the further glory of the
United States that made possible the elevation from a Boston tenement to
the White House.
If this perhaps crossed the minds of some of
the great present today, for millions of Americans the sorrow and despair
was more personal. This day, November 25, did not begin anew in spite of
the evidence of the clocks. All through the bitterly cold night a vast
crowd waited patiently to pay homage as the remains lay in the great Rotunda
of the Capitol. Midnight was meaningless.
After the marines had escorted the ambulance
to the North Portico entrance, the body bearer team, still led by Lieutenant
Bird, carried the casket into the White House. Moving past a joint honor
cordon lining the hallway, the body bearers took the casket to the East
Room and placed it on the replica of the Lincoln catafalque. The first
relief of an honor guard immediately took post at the four corners of the
bier, facing outward. The honor guard included troops from the 3d Infantry
and from the Army's Special Forces (Green Berets). The Special Forces troops
had been brought hurriedly from Fort Bragg, North Carolina, at the request
of Robert Kennedy, who was aware of his brother's particular interest in
them.
At 8.34 p.m. G.M.T. the remains of President
Kennedy were lowered into the grave. Some time in the future an appropriate
tomb will be raised above it. It will not be the memorial that Mr. Kennedy
would have wanted; he wanted to be a great President whose name would rank
after Washington, Jefferson, and Lincoln, and much endeavour was cut short
by the assassin.
AT THE CATHEDRAL
By evening of 23 November, as direct liaison
with Mrs. Kennedy and Robert Kennedy was established and their wishes were
ascertained and incorporated into existing plans, arrangements for the
remaining funeral ceremonies assumed definite shape. For the lying in state
ceremony, the move from the White House to the Capitol was to begin at
1300 on 24 November. The route-from the North Portico entrance of the White
House onto Pennsylvania Avenue, down 15th Street, again on Pennsylvania
Avenue to Constitution Avenue, and then over Constitution Avenue to the
Delaware Avenue entrance of the East Plaza-was to be lined by a joint service
cordon. The President's body was to be borne to the Capitol on a horse-drawn
caisson. The procession, as organized at that time, was to move in the
following order: police (marching); commanding general, Military District
of Washington; muffed drums (no other instruments) ; detail of Navy enlisted
men as honorary pallbearers; special honor guard; national color detail;
clergy; caisson, flanked by four members from each of the armed services;
President's flag; body bearer detail; immediate family; President Johnson;
other mourners; police (marching). Two features of the plan were distinct
departures from the general concept of a State Funeral. One was the use
of a caisson instead of a hearse at this point in the ceremonies; the other
was the omission of a band in favor of muffled drums only. The ceremony
at the Capitol itself, with one exception, was scheduled to follow the
conventional plan. The exception was a series of eulogies to be delivered
in the rotunda. Eulogies were by no means an innovation, but neither were
they a customary part of the lying in state ceremony.
On 22 November, in anticipation of a decision
that President Kennedy would be buried in Arlington National Cemetery,
John
C. Metzler, the cemetery superintendent, selected three possible gravesites.
One was at Dewey Circle in the south­eastern corner of the cemetery;
the second was near the grave of John Foster Dulles,
southwest of the Memorial Amphitheater; and the third was on the slope
east of the Custis-Lee Mansion. About noon on 23 November,
Robert
Kennedy and other members of the family, accompanied by Secretary of
Defense Robert S. McNamara, toured these sites with Mr. Metzler. They made
no decision but appeared to favor the site near the mansion. At midafternoon
the same day, the group returned with Mrs. Kennedy and at this time the
mansion site was chosen. Over the next two days the work of surveying,
marking, and otherwise preparing the gravesite continued almost to the
hour of the burial service.
1100-1400  Executive Branch - Presidential
Appointees - White House Staff
1400-1430 Supreme Court
 1430-1700 Senate - House of Representatives
- State and Territorial Governors
1700-1900 Chiefs of Diplomatic Missions
AMONG THE OAKS
In preparation for the procession from the
White House to the Capitol on 24 November, the joint service honor cordon
lined both sides of the route of march by 1230. The Army, Marine Corps,
Navy, and Air Force each furnished 240 officers and men for the cordon.
The men were spaced twenty-five feet apart and faced toward the street.
The Marine Band opened the graveside rites
with ruffles and flourishes and played the national anthem. When the anthem
ended, the Air Force pipers began a slow march past the gravesite as they
played "Mist Covered Mountain." At the same time the body bearers removed
the casket from the caisson. With General Wehle leading, the national color
detail, clergy, casket, personal flag, and special honor guard following,
the procession moved through the cordon of Army Special Forces troops to
the grave. The cemetery superintendent followed, escorting the Kennedy
family.
Of two further requests made by Mrs. Kennedy,
both of which concerned the graveside ceremony, one was that the only flowers
at the grave itself be a basket of blossoms taken from the White House
garden. All other floral pieces were to be banked on the hillside above
the grave and were to be arranged by the White House gardener.