
Kennedy & Nixon : The Rivalry That Shaped Postwar America
Biography from the University of Groningen
PRESIDENTS HOME PAGE
Search for books about John F. Kennedy
Pictures from the Library of Congress
Profiles in Courage – Audio Cassettes
John Fitzgerald Kennedy National Historic Site at Brookline, Massachusetts
John F. Kennedy page from C-SPAN
1960 Campaign and Election History
34th President: 1961-1963
Inaugural Addresses, State of the Union speeches, and other documents
Events during Kennedy’s administration and lifetime
Gravesite at Arlington National Cemetery
Naval Service
Birthplace from American Presidents.org
Brookline, Massachusetts website
Death: November 22, 1963 at Dallas, Texas
Robert F. Kennedy
All Too Human : The Love Story of Jack and Jackie Kennedy
John F. Kennedy Jr.
John F. Kennedy Executive Orders
Theodore Sorensen - Special Counsel
List by infoplease.com
Dean Rusk - Secretary of State
If you would like to suggest a Presidential link, report a broken link, or have any comments or questions please email:
The Sixth Floor Museum at Dealey Plaza – Dallas, Texas
Mrs. Kennedy: The Missing History of the Kennedy Years
John Fitzgerald Kennedy Library and Museum – Boston, Massachusetts
Warren Commission Report : Report of President’s Commission on the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy
Robert McNamara - Secretary of Defense
Inaugural Address and background from Bartelby.com
Gravesite at Arlington National Cemetery – Arlington County, Virginia
John F. Kennedy Memorial Plaza – Dallas, Texas
America's Queen: A Life of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis
Lyndon B. Johnson biography from Grolier online
Kennedy-Khrushchev Exchanges
Assassination
The purpose of this site is to provide researchers, teachers, students, politicians, journalists, and citizens a complete resource guide to the US Presidents.
Jacqueline Kennedy biography from the White House
Grolier online biography
Trivia from The Presidential Facts Page
Congressional biography
John F. Kennedy Assassination Web page
JFK: The Second Plot
Robert F. Kennedy - Attorney General
The History Place Photo History of JFK
Assassination Science : Experts Speak Out on the Death of JFK
Addison's disease
The New Museum at the John F. Kennedy Library – Boston, Massachussets
Outline of events during Kennedy’s administration
Kennedy White House Tapes from the Miller Center of Public Affairs
White House biography
PT-109
Biography from infoplease.com
Quotes
Rose Kennedy
Kennedy at the Berlin Wall
Brian Tompsett’s US President genealogy page
Case Closed : Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination of John F. Kennedy
Lyndon B. Johnson page
Portrait from C-SPAN
National Historic Sites/State Historic Sites/Landmarks/Places to Visit
Gravesite from American Presidents.org
John F. Kennedy Assassination Records from the National Archives
Crossfire : The Plot That Killed Kennedy
Picture of Grave
Comparison between Lincoln and Kennedy
Foreign travels
Jacqueline Kennedy biography from Grolier online
Cuban Missle Crisis
The Dark Side of Camelot
The John F. Kennedys : A Family Album
Kennedy campaign memorabilia
Ted Kennedy
PRESIDENTS HOME PAGE
Birth: May 29, 1917 at Brookline, Massachusetts as John Fitzgerald Kennedy
presidents@presidentsusa.net
Pictures of Jacqueline Kennedy from the Library of Congress
President Kennedy : Profile of Power

John F. Kennedy Assassination Homepage
Kennedy Weddings : A Family Album
Bay of Pigs
Select a name below for resources about another President.
John F. Kennedy