
The publication coincides with the 37th anniversary of the president's assassination--which, notes historian Michael Beschloss, 80 percent of Americans polled believe was the result of a conspiracy, not a lone gunman--and with the 2000 presidential election, the conduct of which may make some readers more nostalgic than ever for the comparatively pure vision of Kennedy's Camelot. --Gregory McNamee

From Booklist
  Based on this inaugural volume, PublicAffairs' new Presidential Library series will offer fascinating multimedia portraits of U.S. presidents. In the Kennedy package, the lavishly illustrated volume is written by a novelist and former Boston Globe  journalist, with a brief introductory assessment of JFK's legacy by presidential historian Michael Beschloss; there is also a 90-minute compact disc (not reviewed) of Kennedy phone conversations and dictations. The book's illustrations include family, school, campaign, and presidential photographs. More enlightening, however, are the artifacts the volume displays: report cards; "A Plea for a Raise" in young Jack's allowance; a 1960 Eisenhower telegram suggesting pre-election intelligence briefings; a handwritten 1962 note from Truman urging JFK to ignore "these damn columnists and editorial writers"; and pages from Kennedy's presidential speeches, memos, and handwritten notes. The text is less detailed (and less focused on controversy) than a full-scale biography, but it emphasizes what most would consider the key elements of JFK's presidency (civil rights, Cuba, and the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty), while also devoting chapters to Jacqueline and Robert F. Kennedy. Likely to appeal to Kennedy fans and to others seeking a sense of the period. Mary CarrollCopyright © American Library Association. All rights reserved

See all Editorial Reviews
Though born into a vast fortune, John Kennedy, notes historian Charles Kenney, had to overcome a great deal of difficulty (including frequent illness and a pronounced lack of direction) before arriving at the confident sense of purpose that characterized his public image. (Kennedy, the author notes, was also given to vanity, and he worked extraordinarily hard "to remain slender, well-groomed, and carefully tailored," while shunning the ostentation of an earlier generation of powerbrokers and politicians.) Charting Kennedy's evolution from playboy to war hero and scholar, and thence to a leader buffeted by one crisis after another, the book makes generous use of the president's own words--and, especially, of once top-secret correspondence and memoranda. An audio CD, containing recorded addresses, speeches, telephone conversations, and dictations, accompanies the book.