
1 | 2 | 3

  Next > >

Members of such a Beltway family would have as good a chance as not to pass Ethel Kennedy, Bobby's widow and still the exuberant duchess of Hickory Hill, while driving to work along the Potomac River parkways. And if in the media or a lobbying business (a reasonable likelihood in that neighborhood), he or she would sooner or later sit down with Massachusetts Senator Ted Kennedy or his son, Rhode Island Congressman Patrick Kennedy, now in the House leadership, to make a little political rain. Naturally, while attending one of those rites of pretentious power, like the Alfalfa Club dinner, our not-so-mythical Beltway denizens would look across a crowded ballroom or two and marvel at the intense stir created by the arrival of Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg or the young Adonis, John Kennedy, the children of Camelot whose mythical allure swells with every surge of tabloid headlines.
The Kennedy clan is embedded in American political culture of the past half-century like no other family. They arrived at that power base through cold calculation and the blunt instrument of their immense wealth but also because of honorable service to the nation, their reckless exuberance and glamour--and family tragedy beyond measure. The founding father of the clan, Joseph Kennedy, came from immigrant stock with all the eccentric genius and anger of his blighted kin, but he was touched by the magic of America. He went to the elitist Boston Latin School; on to Harvard; and then in the Roaring Twenties, with little regard for ethics or even the law, plunged into the worlds of banking and moviemaking. He cashed in before the market crash of 1929. When Franklin Roosevelt called Joe to Washington to clean up the Securities and Exchange Commission, somebody asked F.D.R. why he had tapped such a crook. "Takes one to catch one," replied Roosevelt. Kennedy did a superb job.
Monday, June 14, 1999

The Kennedy clan, the pre-eminent American political family of our time, seems to be cast in the stars, the distant stuff of legend. But look down. They march ever more numerous among us. There's a spot on Washington's infamous Beltway where an unsuspecting family might find their children in school with a couple of Joseph and Rose Kennedy's 54 great-grandchildren. That same family could be the neighbors of Eunice Kennedy Shriver, one of the Kennedy clan's five surviving originals (there were nine). It could be served in the Maryland assembly by delegate Mark Shriver, nephew of the martyred John Kennedy (and one of 29 grandchildren of Joe and Rose). And it could fall under the growing political hand of Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, oldest child of the murdered Robert Kennedy, now Maryland's lieutenant governor and touted for higher office.