
John F. Kennedy Jr.
PROPAGANDA  JFK Jr's wife was afraid to fly with him.
FACT: Again a story attributed to "unnamed sources",  and again debunked by the interviews shown on Inside Edition. JFK Jr's wife had no problem flying with JFK Jr. and flew with him often.
One more Kennedy death. One more cover-up.
In the NTSB's report, specifically the Fire & Explosions report written by Merritt Birky, the NTSB claims that the red residue, thought by many to be the combustion products of a solid fuel rocket motor, was the 3M contact cement used in the manufacture of the seats. The NTSB went further, claiming that lab tests conducted by NASA scientist Dr. Charles Bassett had linked the red residue to the seat glue.
Originally started back in the 60s to sabotage opposition to the war in Vietnam, the FBI's COINTELRO operation was exposed in the 70s and led to Congressional Hearings. In those hearings, it became obvious that rather than fighting crime, the FBI had been engaged in criminal actions of its own and for no other purpose than to silence anyone who spoke out against the government's policies, and especially those who challenged the official view of events.
No sooner were the various stories put out but they quickly fell apart.
Fullfilling that role is the FBI and it's COINTELPRO program, the harsh reality behind the polished public image.
But that's just the FBI's public image. The reality is quite something else.
The FBI has enjoyed, for much of it's existance, a splendid public image. This is no accident. J. Edgar Hoover spent as much time polishing the image of the FBI as he did solving crimes, and the unofficial motto of the FBI remains, "Never embarrass the bureau".
Keep that in mind.
Oddly enough, Richard Nixon was forced to resign because of the John F. Kennedy assassination.  The break-in at the Watergate offices of the Democratic National Committee would have never become the issue to topple a President, but for the need to protect just WHY the crime had been committed.  The Democrats had obtained  photographs which showed Nixon "associate" E. Howard Hunt to be one of the tramps arrested and then released in Dealey Plaza. This is why Hunt led the break-in at the Watergate. He was protecting his own posterior.
And over and over again, you are being lied to.
PROPAGANDA: Martha's Vineyard is very dark and won't show through the haze.
FACT: That may have been true only a few months ago. However, as evidenced by a   Letter to the Editor of the Martha's Vineyard Times just days after the JFK Jr. crash, new lights installed on the island, lights that point up in the sky, are so bright they are drawing complaints from island residents.
PROPAGANDA: JFK Jr. didn't know his altitude and simply "flew into the ocean".
FACT: The radar track shows him flying at the proper altitude, then (as ABC News put it) "falling out of the sky".
PROPAGANDA  The weather was very hazy.
FACT: The FAA  issued VFR weather conditions that night, and the weather report (mentioned in the  UPI story) called for 8 mile visibility. One witness on shore reported that there was very little haze and that standing on the shore, he could see airplanes out over the ocean on approach to the island, proof that airplanes on the approach could see the shore. This claim is backed up not only by the weather report of 8 mile visibility, but by a   weather radar image taken at about the time of the crash. This radar image is showing haze and fog along New York and Long Island (if this radar image were of clouds, the FAA would not have declared VFR flying conditions that night) but none at all at Martha's Vineyard. ON the morning after the crash, CNN reported that weather could be ruled out as a factor in the crash!
PROPAGANDA: JK Jr. was in "over his head".
FACT: JFK Jr's conversational tone on the radio reveals that he was calm. He was not disoriented. He didn't ask for directions. He didn't indicate he had any problem at all. He clearly was confident he was going to find the airport and land.
Permission was granted by Washington D.C. with the suggestion that the smear be delayed until Jean's pregnancy was much more obvious. He phony letters were sent, and the story broken by Los Angles Times gossip columnist Joyce Haber. NEWSWEEK picked up the story,  and it was soon world wide. All this at a time when inter-racial sex, let alone an inter-racial adulterous affair, was a career-wrecking scandal. The emotional shock of the smear drove Jean Seberg into miscarriage. The funeral for the baby was help with an open coffin, so the lie stood revealed in it's most tragic and pathetic form. Soon after, Jean eberg committed suicide. Because Jean Seberg's husband was a French Diplomat, the scandal became an international incident that ended only when the FBI was forced to make a public apology for it's action (one of very few times it has done so).
Having established that the government and the media have a prior (and quite deplorable) record of deliberate lies to the public, let us look at how the official story of the crash of John F. Kennedy Jr's plane evolved, and why it is suspect.
Click HERE for a Letter to the Editor
published in the Martha's Vineyard Times complaining how new lights which point up into the sky
have turned the center of the island as bright as the "Boston Skyline".
PROPAGANDA: JFK Jr. lost his instruments, and that is why he could not handle the dark and hazy (?) conditions 
FACT: The fact that the radar was getting good data from his encoding altimeter proves his instruments were operating.
New York Observer reporter Andrew Goldman confirms C. David Heymann for deliberatly planting 
false information with the press, information which smears JFK Jr. as a reckless
and incompetant pilot.
Part 3: The FBI and COINTELPRO - harassment of those who try to expose the lies.
PROPAGANDA  JFK Jr. had only 40 hours experience.
FACT: He had 40 hours in that one aircraft. His total experience was about 300 hours, more than enough to qualify him for a commercial pilot's license. According to FAA statistics, 300 hours made him a more careful and safer pilot than one with 1000 hours, who is more complacent.
There is good cause to assume we are being lied to yet again.
Needless to say, the Federal government did not like either the idea of giving up control of the public school curriculum, nor of having to respect anyone's Constitutional rights.
The NTSB lied to the public when they claimed Dr. Bassett's lab tests linked the red residue to seat glue. R. Bassett's tests did nothing of the kind.
The few times the media has appeared to expose government wrongdoing has later been revealed in historical hindsight as one faction using the media against another faction. For those issues which all factions agree must be kept from the public, the media operates with total unanimity. As we saw in the photos from the Dec 14th, 1963 POST magazine, the media was committing outright fraud to sell the single bullet theory to the public. And, as we saw with regard to the cocaine smuggling by the CIA, the media not only ignores the story, but attacks anyone who dares touch the subject.
Yet another infamous FBI trick was the smearing of  actress Jean Seberg, who at a time when the Black Panthers were under attack by the media and the FBI, openly supported them on the issues of civil rights. 
Because of her fame as a film star, Jean Seberg drew a lot of public attention to the real issues the Black Panthers were working for, so the FBI set out to destroy her.
What does this mean? The theory of the lone assassin is based on the "Magic Bullet" theory, that one single bullet accounted for all of JFK's wounds except the head wound, plus all the wounds on Texas Governor John Connelly.  In order to work, the entry wound on JFK's back had to be up at the base of the neck to line up with the purported exit wound in the front of the throat. If the entry wound wasn't where the "Magic Bullet" theory requires it to be then there is no "Magic Bullet". If there is no "Magic Bullet", then there is no "lone assassin".
PROPAGANDA: JFK Jr. stalled the plane.
FACT: The radar track shows that he was well above stall speed.
JFK had an entry wound down on his back, over by the shoulder blade. The photo of JFK's shirt showed clearly where this entry wound was. Gerald Ford's (and the Warren's) official version placed the wound up by the base of the neck. The hole in the shirt was explained away by suggesting that the normally fastidious John Kennedy had allowed his shirt to come un-tucked and ride up his back under the suit coat sufficient to place the back of the shirt up around the neck.  Now, however, the original source document showing the back wound to be right where the (properly tucked in) shirt indicated it was.
Speaking of CBS "60 Minutes", the executive producer of that show, Don Hewitt, has admitted on video tape to editing his show's segment on Gennifer Flowers to discredit her and help Bill Clinton, even though Gennifer Flowers had audio tapes which proved her story was true.
From a very young age we are all raised in the belief that the media is supposed to keep an eye on the government, to watch out for wrongdoing. There is a carefully crafted illusion of an independent media, but it is illusion only. Since WW2, the Central Intelligence Agency has been running 
  operation MOCKINGBIRD which places CIA assets in management positions of all the media. That the CIA wields a great deal of control over the media and what it tells the American people was revealed by the heavy handed actions taken in regards to covering up that portion of the Iran-Contra scandal that took place at the Mena, Arkansas airport.  Following the killing of cocaine smuggler and Iran-Contra pilot Barry Seal, writers Roger Morris and Sally Denton uncovered documents proving that Seal had been working for the CIA. That information was written up as an article for the Washington Post, and had been cleared for publication by legal and fact checking when Managing Editor Bob Kaiser spiked the article without explanation. When writer Gary Webb wrote his series of article  "Dark Alliance", which accused the CIA of being the source of the cocaine that poured into Los Angeles in the 1980s, virtually every major newspaper, including the Los Angeles Times, united in their attack on his story. Less than one year later, the CIA's Inspector General issued a report that admitted to the cocaine trafficking in connection with Iran-Contra. None of the newspapers that savaged Gary Webb ever bothered to apologize to him.
The very first night the aircraft carrying JFK Jr. vanished, there were early reports
of an emergancy beacon being detected, but detected quite a dstance away from where the
plane's wreckage was actually found.
The Warren Commission lied to the public about the location of that wound. There is no other way to put it. It cannot be candy-coated. It cannot be "spun". It cannot be excused. The wound was in one place, but the public was told it was someplace else.
Because of incidents like the above, plus others so numerous as to be beyond the scope of this document, it has become popular to refer to members of the media as "presstitutes", in keeping with John Swinton's quite honest assessment of his own profession.
In those innocent times, the American public was naïve, perhaps dangerously so. Americans never dreamed that our government and the media would lie to us all about something so important as the killing of our leaders. But, as history has shown, they did just that. We never dreamed that our nation's future was being shaped, not by the ballot box, but by the hired assassins of secretive powerful individuals. Yet it was, and still is.
Click HERE for news article which
quotes an eyewitness report that conditions on Martha's Vineyard were not hazy. This report also
shows that people on the shore of the island could see aircraft on approach out over the ocean,
proving that aircraft out over the ocean could see the shore.
Was another plane down in the area that night? If not, then the beacon has to be relative.
That our media is biased is clear. All the mainstream media championed the story that White House Deputy Council  Vincent Foster committed suicide. CBS "60 Minutes" went out of their way to attack writer Chris Ruddy, who pointed out the evidence of cover-up (evidence which has now brought the FBI into Federal Court on charges of witness harassment and evidence tampering). A&E's "Inside Investigations" explained away the lack of fingerprints on the smooth metal revolver Foster was found with by using a heavily textured semi-automatic pistol on their program, a deliberate fraud.
Weather radar image taken 10:40 PM the night of the crash. The radar was 
set for "clear", a much more sensitive setting than "precipitation" which tracks rain.
That this radar image is showing fog and haze as opposed to clouds is proven by the fact that the FAA had listed conditions as VFR with 8 mile visibility for the area.
That the Kennedy family has been the target of political assassination is a part of the American political landscape. It's a given.
Just take a moment and think that through.
Part 2: The dishonesty of the media.
That our government lies to us, with the media's help, is a given.
Asked to give a toast before the prestigious New York Press Club, John Swinton, the former Chief of Staff at the New York Times, made this candid confession [it's worth noting that Swinton was called "The Dean of His Profession" by other newsmen, who admired him greatly]:
Once you accept that the Warren Report lied to the public, you'll realize you knew it all along. After all, the last official government verdict, rendered by the House Select Committee on Assassinations, was that there had indeed been a conspiracy, and John Connelly went to his grave insisting he was not hit by the same gunshot that had hit John F. Kennedy. The Zapruder film bears him out, showing Connelly, after John Kennedy has clutched his throat, still holding his Stetson hat in the hand which was just moments later, struck by a bullet. A different bullet.
NEWSWEEK recalled that issue from the distrubutors, and had them destroyed.
CNN ran a story claiming that NEWSWEEK planned to change covers and re-distribute, but that never happened. The NEWSWEEK issue
dealing with JFK Jr. is dated August 2nd. The July 26th 1999 issue of NEWSWEEK simply vanished.
Click to go to aircraft specs.
From this linkage, it should be obvious that the various assassinations that dominate the political history of our nation are not the isolated events that the media and government would have us believe. They are, rather, high points on an ongoing continuum of intrigue and criminal enterprise that is the political reality.
PROPAGANDA: JFK Jr. went into a steep turn and lost hi horizon.
FACT: There is no reason for JFK Jr. to have been in any turn at all at that point on the flight path leading into the airport. He was already lined up with the main runway at Martha's Vineyard airport.
More than anyone else, with the possible exception of the current occupant of the White House, Richard Nixon destroyed the image of an honorable and law-abiding American President we had all been raised with, The lesson of his term in office was a simple one. Presidents do break the law. Presidents commit perjury and obstruction of justice. Presidents have things to hide.

When Robert Kennedy was killed, yet again the people were told over and over again that it was a lone assassin. The government and the media spoke with a single voice of reassurance that nobody else had taken part in the assassination of Robert Kennedy. Yet it was clear from  initial police reports that one other suspect did exist, a girl in a polka dot dress who was seen leading Sirhan around early in the evening, then running from the scene of the assassination.  Probably few would have paid that much attention to her, since the investigation appeared not to be interested, until an official LAPD audio tape surfaced from the lie detector test of witness Sandy Serrano. Serrano was one of the witnesses who saw the woman in the Polka-dot dress leading Sirhan around prior to the shooting. Yet as can be heard on this tape, the police investigator is clearly trying o coerce Serrano into changing her story!

The Kennedy assassinations, coupled with that of Martin Luther King, plus the attempted assassination of George Wallace, brought an end to that naivete, as we watched the man who would have never been President but for all those convenient deaths walk into the White House on Inauguration day, 1969.
For those critical first few hours, this beacon had searchers looking in the wrong place.
Then it simple went away.

But that is not what Dr. Bassett found. In a sworn declaration entered as evidence in a court case Dr. Bassett makes it clear that his tests did not and could not link the red residue to seat glue. More telling, deliberate attempts by him to coerce the normally pale green contact cement into assuming the reddish color of the residue all failed.
What the red residue actually is, is a subject for another monograph. The key point to be made here is that the National Transportation Safety Board willfully and knowingly lied to the public about an air crash.
But more to the point, even ahead of the implications for the "Magic Bullet" theory, the irrefutable fact is that the Warren Commission lied to the public about that back wound. Though they may try to explain it away as some bizarre attempt at historical "clarification", the plain simple fact is that a wound lower in the back and out on the shoulder blade was reported to the public by the Warren Commission as being at the base of the neck.
The SAIC Los Angeles wrote a memo to FBI headquarters in Washington D.C. Page one of the memo requested permission to plant a false story to destroy Jean Seberg's public image. Page two of the memo contained assurances that the smearing would never be traced back to the FBI, clear evidence that the Los Angeles office knew it was acting in an unethical manner.
Part 5: The crash of John F. Kennedy Jr's aircraft and the indications of a cover-up.
Hoover was obsessed with Hollywood, going back to his battles with Charlie Chaplin. Hoover personally supervised the filming of the Jimmy Stewert movie, "The FBI Story", and FBI documents show that the FBI  not only kept watch on celebrities, but kept an eye on movies that might be considering showing the FBI in a poor light. So concerned with the FBI's [public image was Hoover that he even used bureau assets to track rumors of his gay lifestyle.
The FBI is in the business of planting false information for the express purpose of deceiving the public.

The evidence that TWA 800 was victim to something other than a mysterious fuel tank explosion could fill a website (several, actually) but for our purposes, we will focus on one issue only, that of the strange red residue found on three rows of seats in the reconstructed wreckage.
Rather than risk exposure of a far worse scandal, Nixon resigned, turning over the White House to Gerald Ford, the Warren Commission member who last year admitted last year to altering the official location of JFK's back wound.
From the initial  UPI story, we get the following odd comment.
Click for full size image.
For those of you old enough to remember, recall how the media unabashedly signed onto this lie of a "magic bullet" and a "lone assassin". The mainstream media, who purports to be the watchdog against government abuse on behalf of the American people, stood up to be counted with what may be the most monstrous lie told to the American people in the last half century. People tend to believe what they hear over and over again. And over and over again we heard the steady and unrelenting litany of "lone assassin", "lone assassin", "lone assassin". It wasn't news; it was a hypnotic sales pitch.
As first  reported by United Press International, John F. Kennedy Jr. on approach to Martha's Vineyard in 8 mile visibility, was in radio contact with the ground, calmly informing them of his intentions to drop off a passenger before proceeding to Hyannis airport. Then, according to ABC News, JFK Jr's plane went into a steep dive, and crashed.
Here we find that the beacon that has the Coast Guard ordering a search in the WRONG LOCATION
simply switches goes away. The source of that beacon has never been identified.
It therefore follows that, since the presstitutes write or broadcast what they are told to write and broadcast, that all media presents to the public is what the owners and controllers of the media want you to think. They print it, you think it. They broadcast it, you think it. They print it, you think it. They broadcast it, you think it. People believe what they hear over and over again.
And again, these are not isolated incidents, but part of a continuum, as evidenced by the various scandals which have hit the major media involving the fraudulently manufactured Food Lion story, the  phony Bosnian "Concentration Camp" photos, and the use of explosives to manufacture a story about unsafe side mounted gas tanks on GM trucks.
The NTSB lied.
PROPAGANDA  JFK Jr. was a reckless pilot.
FACT: This claim was planted everywhere in the media, always attributed to an "unnamed source". One reporter, Cindy Adams at the New York Post, later had cause to suspect she had been lied to. So did Andrew Goldman at the New York Observer. 
Interviews with individuals directly familier with JFK Jr's flying ability shown on Inside Edition confirmed that he was a highly skilled and careful pilot.
This radar image shows fog and haze along 
New York and Long Island, but Martha's Vineyard is definatly in clear air.
PROPAGANDA: JFK Jr. would have lost his artificial horizon if the vacuum pump failed in the aircraft.
FACT: MSNBC is the only media outlet to have tried to hype this one, using a self-proclaimed "aviation expert". His claim is also false, as there is a backup vacuum system in the pitot assembly of that aircraft.
Just days prior to his death, NBC Dateline hinted that JFK Jr. was considering an entry into politics,
and mentioned that a story to that effect was to be published in the July 26th, 1999 issue of NEWSWEEK.
One of the most infamous smear jobs involved the "Black Panther Coloring Book".  The Black Panthers were originally formed to address two issues. They wanted to make sure that kids in the ghettos were getting breakfasts, and they were concerned with the curriculum in the public schools and wanted local control of education (an issue that many today can easily identify with). And, of course, they wanted the government to respect their Constitutional rights.
PROPAGANDA: JFK Jr. was lost.
FACT: When JFK Jr. radioed controllers on the Cape (as reported on Boston TV News) to announce his approach to Martha's Vineyard, radar showed him to be just where he stated he was and at the correct altitude for the approach.
One of the tools most used by the FBI was to sabotage public support for dissident views by planting false information, either through informants, the complicit media, or undercover informants which operated on every college campus (and still do to this day).
Back To The Crash Page.
This is the harsh reality behind the glitzy and quite phony façade of the FBI. As whistleblower Frank Whitehurst has pointed out, and as the lawsuit against the FBI for witness harassment and evidence tampering in the  Vincent Foster case underscores, the FBI is not always interested in what is true, but only in what is expedient.
It is inevitable that when a government lies to the people, sooner or later the liars need to have in place a mechanism to suppress anyone who might wish to expose the lies, the first amendment be damned.
That cover-ups surrounded the deaths of Kennedys is also a given.
Part 4: The NTSB and TWA 800
New York Post reporter Cindy Adams outs C. David Heymann for deliberatly planting 
false information with the press, information which implies that JFK Jr. was an incompetant pilot.
That is an important lesson to keep in mind, that a lie to the public demands, and has little trouble obtaining, a vast number of people to help it along.
Here are some examples.

Starting from the fact that you were lied to about the deaths of John and Robert Kennedy, take a moment to think back at just how many people had to sign onto those lies. Newscasters, police officers, investigators, and government officials, all had to take part, all DID take part.
However, even before the wreckage was found, the story being put out in the media began to change. Gone was the previously reported radio conversation a calm JFK Jr. had with ground personnel just before the plane fell out of the sky, replaced by a declaration from the NTSB that JFK Jr. had not used his radio at all as he approached Martha's Vineyard. Gone also was the originally reported 8 mile visibility while the media began to hammer home the claim that Martha's Vineyard had been totally blanketed with a haze so heavy that pilots in the air would have been blind.
Click HERE for news article which confirms JFK Jr. to be in calm radio contact 
with the ground, in 8 mile visibility, and reports a witness who saw a white flash up in the sky. This article also tells a story of a
strange radio bacon, thought to be that of JFK Jr's plane, which started at the time of the crash but in the wrong location, then
mysteriously shut down some hous later.
The FBI then printed up the coloring book shown at the above link and distributed it far and wide. That it was mailed primarily to white households should have been the tip-off, but again, people didn't believe that the government of the United States engaged in such despicable behaviors, and that belief kept the people blind. The mainstream media then proceeded to tell the public that the coloring books were being given out to black children at those free breakfasts, and forever after, the Black Panthers were portrayed by the media as dangerous fanatics intending to kill white people. Needless to say, all support for local control of the curriculum vanished.
Perhaps no stronger indication exists of the culture of deception that permeates our government than the deplorable behavior of the NTSB in the aftermath of the crash of TWA 800.