
Perret describes Kennedy's
    handling of the Cuban missile crisis and his stance on civil
    rights. As to Vietnam, Kennedy did not believe it was worth fighting
    for, and in the last months of his presidency he began formulating
    a secret plan for neutralization and withdrawal - if he won the
    1964 election. But that, of course, was not to be: Convinced
    he would die young, Kennedy foresaw that a violent death would
    claim him. Throughout his brief time in the White House he was
    haunted by a vision of a man standing at a window, looking down
    at him, holding a rifle.
Official website of the John
    F. Kennedy Library in Boston offers access to a wealth of documents,
    photos, and exhibits that spotlight Kennedy's administration
    and the events that helped to shape it. Online educational programs
    cover the 1960 election, the Cuban missile crisis, the space
    program, the civil rights struggle, and biographies of Kennedy
    and his wife Jacqueline.
Jack reveals how the restless, innovative Kennedy was
    able to overturn more than a hundred years of political tradition,
    forge the modern political campaign, and, once in the White House,
    modernise the presidency. His success was so complete that all
    serious presidential candidates since 1960 have sought to compare
    themselves to JFK, not challenging his legacy but embracing it.
JFK Remembered: An Intimate Portrait
    by His Personal Photographer
by Jacques Lowe
President Kennedy: Profile of Power
    by Richard Reeves

    President Kennedy is the compelling, dramatic history of JFK's
    thousand days in office. It illuminates the presidential center
    of power by providing an indepth look at the day-by-day decisions
    and dilemmas of the thirty-fifth president as he faced everything
    from the threat of nuclear war abroad to racial unrest at home.
Geoffrey Perret's Jack
    is the first account of Kenndy's life based on the extensive
    and important documentary record that finally became available,
    including Kennedy's personal diaries, hundreds of hours of taped
    conversations from the White House, declassified government documents,
    extensive family correspondence, and crucial interviews sealed
    for nearly forty years. The result is a gripping, accurate, and
    ultimately moving portrait of America's most charismatic president.
.
An Unfinished Life is the first major, single-volume
    life of Kennedy by a historian in nearly four decades. Drawing
    upon previously unavailable material and never-before-opened
    archives to tell Kennedy's story. We learn for the first time
    just how sick Kennedy was, what medications he took and concealed
    from all but a few, and how severely his medical condition affected
    his actions as President. We learn for the first time the real
    story of how Bobby Kennedy was selected as Attorney General.
    Dallek reveals exactly what Jack's father did to help his election
    to the presidency, and he follows previously unknown evidence
    to show what path JFK would have taken in the Vietnam entanglement
    had he survived.
Jack:
    A Life Like No Other
by Geoffrey
    Perret
"Covering every important domestic
    and foreign topic, this treatment is at once balanced, comprehensive,
    authoritative, and readable. . . . With this book, Kennedy studies
    at last move beyond both apology and revisionism to dispassionate
    analysis and mature reflection." - Allen J. Matusow
.
Dallek lists JFK out of the
    gossips and back onto the world stage, showing that while he
    was the son of privilege, he faced great obstacles and fought
    on with remarkable courage. Never shying away from Kennedy's
    weaknesses, Dallek also brilliantly explores his strengths. The
    result is a portrait of a bold, brave, human Kennedy, once again
    a hero.
In Jack: A Life Like No
    Other, Kennedy seems to step off the page in all his vitality,
    charm, and originality.
.
The Presidency of John F. Kennedy
by James N. Giglio
John F. Kennedy
    Library and Museum
An unprecedented, behind-the-scenes portrait
    of JFK and the Camelot years--published on the thirtieth anniversary
    of the assassination.
Jack provides much-needed context and perspective on Kennedy's
    bewilderingly complex personality. It offers an even-handed account
    of the seamy side of his life, along with valuable insights into
    JFK's truly idealistic and visionary character. Jack presents
    a compelling account of the volatile relationship between Kennedy
    and his wife. At the same time, Perret explains how, together,
    they created the Kennedy style. And here, for the first time,
    is a comprehensive account of Kennedy's numerous and varied ailments
    from childhood on, including his back problems.
Nearly everyone who was alive and aware in
    1963 can remember where they were when they heard of the assassination
    of President John F. Kennedy. No single event stood out so sharply
    in people's memories or shocked so many so deeply. But Kennedy's
    tragic death has colored our view of his life, creating a national
    blind spot that has hindered a fair assessment of his administration.
    In The Presidency of John F. Kennedy, historian James
    Giglio provides a succinct, comprehensive, and highly readable
    assessment of the Kennedy years.
As a man, Giglio contends, Kennedy was indeed
    charming, witty, intelligent, and handsome, but he was also ambitious
    and vulnerable - a man who often failed to measure up to his
    romantic image. As president, Kennedy did deal effectively with
    many domestic economic and social issues, but he provided only
    sporadic and belated leadership in civil rights. And according
    to Giglio, Kennedy made little effort to combat poverty. He was
    more adept at managing foreign crises than preventing them, and
    by 1963, Giglio writes, Kennedy was on a collision course in
    Vietnam.
Lowe, a support staffer in Kennedy's fiercely
    loyal campaign entourage, was deputized as the candidate's personal
    photographer. He clicked such good poses for magazine covers,
    and candids for posterity - of rallies, of family, and of the
    nail-biting waiting on election night of 1960 - that the president-elect
    told him, "You've done fine so far. Just continue."
    This adoring album is divided into images from the 1960 campaign
    and those of JFK exercising power ... Lowe, an important participant
    in the myth of Camelot, responded to his boss's trust with many
    intimate, character-capturing, and celebrated frames, and JFK's
    adorers will surely savor them. - Gilbert Taylor
An Unfinished Life: John F. Kennedy.
    1917 - 1963
by Robert Dallek
Reeves ... offers an excellent
    study of Kennedy as crisis manager. He presents Kennedy as neither
    an amoral playboy nor the ruler of Camelot but a poorly prepared
    president with mediocre congressional experience. Each chapter
    presents a different day in the administration - a unique format
    that effectively reveals how Kennedy responded to simultaneous
    harrowing issues. The Berlin Wall, the Cuban Missile Crises,
    Vietnam, and the diplomacy of arms reduction illustrate how Kennedy
    was constrained by the unshakable Cold War fear of monolithic
    communism ... a thorough, even-handed review of the Kennedy years.
    - Karl Helicher