
Tony Abbott, the new drug watchdog
If RU486 was left to the Therapeutic Goods Administration, we
could be confident the drug would be considered objectively. While
the decision stays in political hands, we can't.
But key parts of the medical establishment, including the
Australian Medical Association, say the drug provides a useful and
safe alternative to surgery, and insist the supervision issue can
be handled.
Politics, that's why. And the strength of moral campaigners. In
1996, the Howard Government passed a law making abortion drugs
restricted goods, with the minister having the power to grant
exemptions.
The debate was reignited by the Democrats saying they would seek
to amend the next piece of legislation involving the TGA to remove
the ministerial discretion on RU486.
Although in 1996 neither the Coalition nor Labor had a
conscience vote, the Opposition has already said it will have a
free vote this time. The Coalition party room is likely to want one
too, because of the strength of divided opinion.
Medical experts, not the minister, should decide about
RU486, writes Michelle Grattan.
People would be appalled if drugs used in the treatment of
cancer, asthma or heart disease had to have a politician's approval
before they could be evaluated by the expert Therapeutic Goods
Administration. Why is this drug different?
But the argument about RU486 should be distinguished from that
about abortion itself. This is not a matter of whether abortions
should be allowed or on what conditions. Abortion is legal on wide
grounds, and there's no community mood to change that. The RU486
debate is about the means, not the end.
Whatever the merits and limitations of the abortion-inducing
drug RU486, it seems bizarre that the decision about its entry into
the country is left in the hands of the health minister.
Yesterday's advice from the chief medical officer, John Horvath,
concentrates on the drug's possible use for country women without
easy access to abortion facilities. Abbott had asked for it in
response to political pressure, including from Victorian regional
Liberal Sharman Stone.
The advice fits with Abbott's disinclination to let in RU486. It
said: "For some women seeking pregnancy termination, a medical
abortion may be preferable, but is unsafe in circumstances in which
appropriate supervision and follow-up may not be available. It is
therefore unsuitable for women in rural and remote areas who may
have limited access to obstetric facilities." Making the drug
available on prescription without "appropriate frameworks" to
ensure it was used safely would "increase the risks to women
undergoing pregnancy terminations".
Washer points out that most European countries, America, Israel
and New Zealand allow the drug. "It should not be a political
decision. The (1996) amendment should be lifted. Proper procedures
should be gone through so it can be properly assessed in a
non-emotive apolitical way."
Mal Washer, a West Australian backbencher and a doctor, last
week went with Stone to Howard to put the case for removing the
ban. The PM told them cabinet would be looking at the issue.
Unsurprisingly, the godfather of this legislation was
independent senator Brian Harradine, who was looming as a key vote
for the Government in the years ahead.
Abbott will never give up his deep religiously based commitment
to the battle against abortion but knows he must fight within the
fence the PM has put up around the issue. John Howard won't cut
back on the availability of Medicare payments for abortions.
Even to the lay eye, the Horvath opinion looks pretty one-sided,
because he was asked specifically about country women. The AMA
called it "skewed, incomplete". A wider brief could have produced a
more balanced response, but Abbott has seized on the advice,
declaring it gives him no reason to change the status quo.
Howard once again finds himself in the middle of an abortion
controversy he doesn't want to have. Let's hope he shows a bit of
common sense and political courage. It shouldn't be so scary now.
Brian Harradine has retired.
Never mind that Tony Abbott, who received departmental advice on
the drug yesterday, has strong anti-abortion views. If he was the
keenest of pro-choicers, the point would be the same.
Michelle Grattan is political
editor.
It's an awkward situation all round, not least for Abbott. While
he is using the advice to reinforce his preference, he's open to
attack for choosing a selective opinion over broader medical
voices. It would be better for Abbott personally if he distanced
himself from the future of this drug. He is already unpopular with
many of the women in the party over abortion.
Abbott's consideration of RU486 is also in the context of
initiatives he is proposing in an attempt to curb the abortion
rate. He wants to make pregnancy counselling a Medicare item and
set up a counselling hotline.
There is a bill relating to the TGA before the Senate, which the
Government says it needs this year. This would make showdowns in
cabinet, the Coalition party room and Parliament unavoidable in the
next few weeks.