
Abbott's love child turns into shaggy dog story
"And I'm sorry that poor old Daniel has been dragged through the
public spotlight as a result of a connection to me which it now
appears was never the case."
Mr Abbott said he wished Mr O'Connor and Ms Donnelly all the
best. "I hope they have a great life and I guess I'm just sad for
him that he's been dragged through the media mill because of a
connection with me which it now seems didn't exist," he said.
The Prime Minister, John Howard, said: "Although it has become a
very public issue because it involves a high-profile politician, it
is still an intensely private matter and I don't want to start
pontificating about it except to say that nothing that has happened
alters my deep personal regard for Tony Abbott."
"Truth is stranger than fiction. This story has certainly
developed some pretty surreal twists."
Mr Abbott had started a relationship with Ms Donnelly in 1975
while completing year 12 at St Ignatius College, Riverview. When
the pair went to university, Ms Donnelly gave birth to a baby boy
at Mater Hospital, Crows Nest, on July 26, 1977. Mr Abbott was
under the impression that the baby was his son and he saw him
briefly before Ms Donnelly relinquished the boy for adoption five
days after the birth.
The four involved, Ms Donnelly, Mr Abbott, the unidentified man
and Mr O'Connor, took DNA tests which determined the Health
Minister was not the father.
Last Boxing Day, Mr Abbott phoned his son. Mr O'Connor's
reported response was: "Thanks for having me."
The story was broken on Channel Seven News last night with the
revelation that another anonymous man had contacted Mr Abbott's
then teenage girlfriend and the mother of his "son", Kathy
Donnelly, claiming that he suspected he was Mr O'Connor's
biological father.
Mr Abbott said the past few months had been "a bit wild".
"To find the boy I thought I had all those years ago and to go
through a reunion and now to lose him like this is pretty shocking
and I feel a bit numb about it all," he said.
The Minister for Health confirmed last night that DNA testing
had proved Daniel O'Connor, 27, an ABC sound recordist in the
federal parliamentary press gallery, was not his son.
The story received wide coverage with Ms Donnelly, Mr O'Connor -
who was holidaying in Europe when the story broke - and his adopted
father, John O'Connor, giving poignant interviews.
"It was something that, once Kathy had talked to me about it, we
both decided that it was probably in Daniel's best interest if he
knew who his dad was," he said.
He had spoken with Ms Donnelly at her Port Hedland home in
Western Australia after Mr Abbott received blanket coverage around
the country last month for his heart-warming story of how he had
found his "son".
"I really think that this is a matter for Daniel above all else.
I have gone through 27 years of life convinced that I was Daniel's
dad, but it appears that is not the case," he said.
Mr Abbott said he spoke to Mr O'Connor late last week after he
received news about the testing.
The man publicly embraced by Tony Abbott as his long-lost love
child is the child of another man.
He said he had nothing further to say about the affair except to
"wish everybody involved well, Daniel, Tony and the other parties
who are involved. It is not for me to start passing judgement and
pontificating about it," Mr Howard told Sky News.
She said in subsequent interviews that she had told her son that
Mr Abbott was his father.
He said he had not spoken to Mr Abbott about it but he
would.
The
story was broken in newspapers on February 20, after word was
judiciously leaked that The Bulletin magazine's March 1
issue was to run a story "How I found my son" in Tony Abbott's "own
words".
In the months before, a number of Government members started
talking about looking into the issue of abortion but Mr Abbott
denied his publicising of how he found his "son" was related to the
issue.
The story had additional piquancy owing to the fact that the
"son" was a soundman with the ABC in the parliamentary press
gallery and had often worked side-by-side with his "father" with
neither man realising their relationship.
In December last year, Mr O'Connor contacted Ms Donnelly at her
Port Hedland home.
The man told Ms Donnelly that Mr O'Connor closely resembled one
of his other children.