
Hey, Dad ... Tony Abbott's Christmas surprise from the '70s
Ms Donnelly and Daniel spent much of the next two days on the
telephone, and she contacted Mr Abbott with the news the next day.
Mr Abbott, who holds well-known conservative Catholic views on
abortion and adoption, gathered his thoughts and called his son.
"Hi, is that Daniel? This is Tony Abbott," he said. "Thanks for
having me," Daniel replied.
When Daniel contacted his mother they talked warmly and at
length, then Ms Donnelly asked if he knew his father's identity.
No, the adoption agency had given only her name.
He contacted his birth mother via a Catholic adoption agency on
Christmas Eve last year.
"There is always the possibility that one day you might get a
knock on the door from a stranger who says 'G'day, Dad'," Tony
Abbott said in 2001.
Since that first conversation the two have met and their
families are getting to know one another.
Mr Abbott, who has written about the experience for The
Bulletin, describes himself as callow and ill-prepared for
fatherhood at 19. Daniel was born two months after Mr Abbott and Ms
Donnelly ended their relationship.
Mr Abbott barely recalls briefly meeting Daniel soon after the
birth. "I was psychologically unready for parenthood; that is the
sad truth about me at that time. I just wasn't ready for it."
For the federal Health Minister that day came on Boxing Day,
just two months ago. But it was a phone call, not a knock, and the
voice on the line was not Mr Abbott's son but the young man's birth
mother, Kathy Donnelly, the minister's childhood girlfriend.
Mr Abbott said when Ms Donnelly first told Daniel who his father
was he could not stop swearing. As Health Minister, Mr Abbott has
reignited a national debate with comments last November on adoption
and abortion. He also said women deserved much more support if they
became pregnant unexpectedly.
An article in The Bulletin this week will reveal Mr
Abbott's son, Daniel, 27, living in Canberra, and it is believed he
works for the ABC in the parliamentary press gallery. Their paths
had crossed more than once before they discovered the nature of
their relationship.