
An early girlfriend of Tony Abbott's was once believed to have given birth to a son which had been adopted out. This period
was described as an intense personal experience for Abbott, and is said to have directly influenced his strong anti-abortion
views. However the identity of this son was not known until recently. In early 2005, it was publicly revealed that this child was
Daniel O'Connor, an Australian Broadcasting Corporation sound
recordist who worked in Parliament House, Canberra
and who had often been involved in making television programs in which Abbott appeared. DNA testing later revealed, however, that
Abbott was not O'Connor's biological father.
Abbott was elected to the Australian House of Representatives at
a by-election in March 1994, following the resignation of Michael MacKellar. He was
the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Employment, Education, Training and Youth Affairs 1996-98, Minister for
Employment Services 1998-2001, Minister for Employment, Workplace Relations and Small Business 2001, Minister for Employment and
Workplace Relations 2001-03 and Minister for Health and Ageing from 2003.
Prior to the 2004 election, Abbott made an "iron-clad
commitment" to maintain the safety net at current levels. Six months after this commitment, following the election victory of his
party, a decision was made to partially cut back the Medicare safety net. Abbott
apologised for this and has said he had contemplated resignation but "decided against it".

In July 2006, Mr Abbott visited the Pitlands, an Aboriginal reserve in north-west
South Australia.
Abbott attracted some criticism in February 2006, when he posed a rhetorical question "Are there any Australians in the
so-called Australian Labor Party?" whilst attacking what he saw as divisive racial factionalism in the controversial preselection
for the seat of Hotham.


Abbott was born in London, United Kingdom[1] to Australian parents. In 1960, his
family returned to Australia, living first in Bronte then moving to
Chatswood. Abbott was initially schooled at Highfield Kindergarten before
attending the Holy Family Convent. In Year 3 he started at St Aloysius' College and
attended there until he completed his secondary school education at St
Ignatius' College, Riverview in Sydney.[2] He graduated from the University of Sydney with a Bachelor of Economics (BEc) and a Bachelor of Laws (LLB).[1] At university he was active in
student politics, gaining media attention for his political stance opposing the then dominant left-wing student leadership. He
was also a prominent student boxer. He then went on to attend the University of
Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar and graduated with a Master of Arts (MA). A devout
Catholic, he then considered the Catholic priesthood, and entered St Patrick's
diocesan seminary in Sydney, but subsequently decided to leave of his own accord and choose another career path.
During the first term of the Howard government, Abbott was vocal in his opposition to the then rising One Nation Party and its leader, Pauline Hanson. He argued that
their views included anti-immigrant rhetoric and economic protectionism. One of One
Nation's founders, David Oldfield, was a former member of Abbott's staff. Abbott later
established a political fund to oppose One Nation candidates.
Anthony John "Tony" Abbott (born 4 November 1957),
Australian politician, is the Minister for Health and Ageing and Leader of the House in the
Australian federal government. Since 1994, he has been the Member for Warringah,
in New South Wales in the House of
Representatives for the Liberal Party.
As Minister for Health and Ageing, Abbott has made reductions in funding to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme and Medicare. He also introduced the Medicare Safety Net in 2004, which caps the annual
out-of-pocket costs of Medicare card holders to a maximum amount.

Abbott is an aggressive parliamentary debater and political tactician. His appointment as Health Minister, traditionally a
difficult portfolio, makes him one of the government's most senior ministers.



Since his appointment as Workplace Relations Minister in 2001, Abbott has been further promoted to the high profile Health
ministry. Abbott's position on the Coalition frontbench sees him touted as one of the possible successors of John Howard.
However, unlike treasurer Peter Costello, Abbott has
not openly expressed any desire to lead the party. Abbott's position as a senior member of the Liberal Party of Australia means he should remain a high profile member of any Coalition
Government for the remainder of his political career.
After leaving the seminary Abbott worked as a journalist for The Bulletin, an
influential news magazine. He became well known for his strongly worded criticism of trade unions, feminism and left-wing politics. For a period, Abbott was a Plant Manager for Pioneer Concrete before becoming
press secretary to the Leader of the Opposition, Dr John Hewson in 1990-93, and between
1993-94 the Executive Director of Australians for Constitutional
Monarchy.[1] Abbott is
married to Margaret to whom he has three daughters.[3]
Abbott was one of the leading voices in opposition to the 1999
referendum which would have, if it had succeeded, made Australia a
republic.
A conscience vote took place in February 2006 approving a measure that moved
regulatory control of the abortion drug RU486 away from the Health Minister; Abbott and
previous Health Ministers had decided not to allow it to be made available. Abbott responded to the vote by calling for funding
of alternative counselling to pregnant women through church-affiliated groups. More recently, a bill was introduced into
Parliament with Abbott's support that would, if passed, require women to undergo
a counselling session and a "cooling down" period. This bill was introduced with the aim of reducing the number of abortions that
are done in Australia. It is as yet unknown what form this counselling would take.
Abbott is a volunteer member of the NSW Rural Fire Service, which
fought to contain a bushfire in Victoria's west in January 2006 [2]

Abbott is widely known as an outspoken socially conservative Catholic who opposes abortion. This has earned him the nickname The Mad
Monk in certain political circles and in the widely circulated Crikey newsletter. Abbott has
suggested legislation to reduce access to abortion, although this has been opposed by some of his Parliamentary colleagues in the
Liberal Party. In March 2004, he asked: "Why isn't the fact that 100,000 women choose to end their pregnancies regarded as a
national tragedy approaching the scale, say, of Aboriginal life expectancy being 20 years less than that of the general community?" [1]