
Tony Abbott in the grandstand
The minister's particular target is the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union, which, in evidence to the royal commission into the building industry, has been accused of running closed shops in Victoria and Western Australia. It is no accident that Mr Abbott's dispute with the State Government coincides with Terence Cole's inquiry into illegal and improper conduct in a business that generates $35 billion nationwide. From the outset, however, Mr Cole's investigations have been shrouded in a hostile and politically charged atmosphere. The commission was set up in an election year, when detractors sought to dismiss it as a political stunt. Although Mr Cole has earned respect in some quarters for his independence and toughmindedness, the accusations that his inquiries are politically motivated have continued. Earlier this month, Mr Cole felt the need to say that "the commission is absolutely independent. I have no contact with the government apart from formal submissions, which are made in public".
By forcing the State Government's hand on this issue before the royal commission has completed its inquiries, Mr Abbott makes the mistake of further politicising Mr Cole's work. Mr Abbott is right in his wish to wipe out  dishonest and restrictive labour practices on worksites, but he falls into the polemical error of casting unions in the villains' role, a move that runs the risk of antagonising honest workers who support unions in their legitimate and important task of representing the interests of employees. Reviving historic enmities between workers and employers does little to advance trust and productivity in the workplace.
Mr Abbott has responded by imposing similar conditions on Commonwealth funding on other construction projects around the state. Building work on schools, the Geelong Road, the Scoresby Freeway and the Melbourne Aquatic Centre for the Commonwealth Games are all at risk. With some justification, the acting Premier, John Thwaites, has accused Mr Abbott of provoking a dispute where there was none. "The roads projects, the school projects, have been going ahead without industrial problems; now it seems Tony Abbott, for his own political purposes, wants to hold our schools and our roads hostage to his political ambition," he said last week. For his part, Mr Abbott has said he wishes to ensure that unions are not running closed shops, preventing nonunion members from taking up employment on the sites.
Controversial decisions and the MCG often go together, and when the Minister for Workplace Relations, Tony Abbott, recently decided to impose contractual conditions on federal funding for the new northern stand, he was doubtless prepared for the cries of foul play from the Bracks Government. The interpretations placed on the minister's move depend on which side you back. For the State Government and the Melbourne Cricket Club - both of whom wish to see the new stadium completed in time for the Commonwealth Games in 2006 - Mr Abbott's request that the employment advocate, who enforces federal industrial relations law, have unlimited access to the site, was untenable. They chose to reject the Commonwealth's $90 million in funding and make up the shortfall between them. Both feared that the changes would result in industrial chaos and Mr Bracks (like Premier Jeff Kennett before him when negotiating with the unions on Federation Square) decided to make a deal with the workers on his own terms.
For more than a decade, workers have been under pressure to adapt to changing employment conditions that have meant more part-time jobs, more casual positions and more unpaid overtime. Unions, too, have lost members over this time and have struggled for relevance. The rules of the game have changed. The proper role of government is not to back sides but to ensure that fair, transparent processes are put in place that protect both the interest of workers and the people who pay them.
The perception of  bias is unfortunate because it undermines the commission's authority and makes the task of industry reform more difficult. And, as the submissions so far to Mr Cole have made clear, the need for reform is not manufactured by political ideologues, but is real enough. In Perth, for example, the commission heard evidence from five builders that they paid almost $1 million to the CFMEU for casual union tickets, strike pay and training to guarantee industrial peace. After hearing evidence that builders are likely to seek "commercial solutions" with unions rather than risk the cost of a long-running dispute, Mr Cole foreshadowed the need for a regulatory authority to police codes of conduct on building sites. Such a reform has the potential to stop rorts and corrupt practices on  sites, as well as to ensure that safety regulations are observed and worker benefits paid.