
5 Responses to “Tony Abbott on Muslim Integration”
Tony Abbott on Muslim Integration
Tony Abbott has on several occasions spoken thoughtfully about Muslims, from 2003 lecture in the United States on Multiculturalism and recently after the Benedict speech. His views appear to be genuinely held and reasonable.
I read his speech in conjunction with John Faulkner’s and cannot find examples of copying beyond a similarity in theme (which is not unusual as this is the most pressing question in the Western world)
On the other hand, beware politicians bearing gifts. One doesn’t have to be a political genius to figure out what’s happening. Rudd is making the running on a ’softer’, more ‘compassionate’ (more left-wing) spirituality in politics as a political means of differentiating himself from the ‘if-they’re-going-to-criticise-me-then-clerics-can-shut-up’ approach of Howard. On the otherside of the chamber is Costello, who has opted for the ‘if-you’re-openly-Muslim-then-get-out’ path. Abbott is trying to position himself in between the two as a distinguishable alternative in an attempt to gain a foot-hold as a ‘contender’ for Coalition leadership and eventually PMship. There is no point in being naive about the motivations of politicians.
Being kind to Muslims is unlikely to win him any additional votes.
I’m not saying Abbott is Bronwyn Bishop. No-one would slander him in such a malicious way.
I think we should appreciate a Howard government minister who has resisted the electoral appeal of bashing Muslims in favor of opening a discussion with them.
Side-note: the novel comparison between Irish Catholics and Muslisms doesn’t seem to have occurred to Abbott before Faulkner’s speech. The first time Abbott refers to the comparison himself is in response to a question from an ABC Radio journalist:
Acknowledging sources is a common courtesy (and an Islamic practice), but then again, this is politics.
The liberal party has members who make their dislike for Muslims widely known, but there are also others who have taken principled stands, for example Petro Gergiou, Victor Perton, Bruce Baird, John Hewson, Malcom Fraser, John Valder and Tony Abbott.