
Abbott’s Accountability
Politics, if it was ever different, is now an exercise in judging what the punter will swallow. Many politicians lie habitually. I sometimes wonder if they even realise they are doing it.
And a good comment it was too.
“HEALTH Minister Tony Abbott says that giving women access to the abortion drug RU486 could lead to a spate of “backyard miscarriages” and an internet-based black market in “medical abortion”.”
The drug  needs to be handled within the normal prescription medicine guidelines of the TGA. I’ve yet to  see anyone offer a cogent case as to why this drug - out of thousands - requires a political rather than the normal clinical/regulatory handling parameter. There are many far more potentially harmful drugs in the national formulary and the Minister doesn’t choose to intervene in the licensing/precribing of any of them.
Abbott is being fundamentally dishonest on this.
It is much more probable that a black market will form around the drug if it continues to be prohibited.
And you sound surprised!
Yes, Abbott should get with the punters on this one. Ive had enough of these Right Wing elitist viewpoints, out of touch with ordinary battler concerns.
Precisely, Geoff. Why RU486 and nothing else? Abbott is being fundamentally dishonest on this.
For all the fearless, warrior persona that Abbott affects it seems impossible for him to summon up the courage to state the obvious: ” I am adamantly opposed to pregnancy termination under most circumstances and I will do all in my power to ensure that my personal view prevails.”
To expect any different is to court disappointment. Sad eh?
the people have spoken Abbott. And while you’re at it, there’ about 10% support for the monarchy here, so you can dump that elitist totem as well.
It would certainly help clarify thinking before the Senate votes.
Because he can. Pollies like Abbott will abuse what little power they have. All the more reason not to give them any.
Mifepristone entered it’s current shadowland in 1996 as a sop to Brian Harridine and there it remains. Stuck in a bizarre, politically-constructed vacuum that has absolutely nothing to do with “patient safety”
or any other politically convenient  evasion that Abbott et al come up with.