
But 
              the worst is yet to come. The 
              Postinor-2 contraceptive pill, made available six months ago, looks 
              set to become a prescription-only drug again since Abbott discovered 
              that young girls in their teens had access to it. We all know that 
              condoms are a girl's best friend, but sometimes the boys don't get 
              the message. Now the Health Minister wants to ensure girls get his 
              message.
Not too much, they're both religious fundamentalists who want to 
              impose their bigoted moral viewpoint on the rest of us. They're 
              both twisted by a dirty little mind that sees evil in sexual feelings. 
              They're both appalled by any hint of female sexuality and hide their 
              fear behind the mask of an ancient patriarchal cult from our barbaric 
              past. They are sick men indeed

AMA 
              President Dr. Bill Glasson, who is unhampered by indoctrination 
              into the catholic priesthood, sensibly states that young people 
              will stop seeking expert advice about a range of health issues that 
              they don't feel comfortable discussing with their parents. The health, 
              indeed the lives, of young Australians mean little to Abbott. And 
              anyway, these kids don't even vote.
Is 
              there any difference between Abbott and Mullah 
              Omar, the head of the former Taliban Government in Afghanistan ?
The 
              Mad Monk in a spin over teenagers

              Failed Catholic priest and Health Minister Tony Abbott is distraught 
              by the revelation that teenagers have sex.
The 
              way to halt these hoary hormonal shenanigans is simple, dob 'em 
              in to their Mum and Dad. Why no one else thought of this astounding 
              solution in the last 500,000 years is a mystery to me.

The 
              shocking truth of  
              "open-slather sexual activity" 
              amongst 15 and 16 year olds has sent the unsuccessful seminarian 
              into absolute horror - so much so, he is moved by mighty forces 
              to put a stop to it right here and now
Abbott 
              is pushing 
              ahead with his plan to give parents access to the health records 
              of minors against stiff resistance from Australian Medical Association. 
              Given the chance, the minors would put up stiff resistance too.