

"A 
          Method of One's Own"
More than half a century ago the brilliant clown Charlie Chaplin invited the great musician Igor Stravinsky to his home. Documented in photographs in Life Magazine, Chaplin brought Stravinsky into his back yard and showed him a large circular contraption about seven feet in diameter. The wheel was designed in such a way as for a person to be "the spokes". Stravinsky placed himself inside with arms akimbo and legs spread as Chaplin rolled him around. It is clear in the photographs that both of them are laughing; having a blast.
Hence, a lineage began over a hundred years ago continues.  The pursuit of "the work" is enriched with tradition as well as bold new ideas.  Michael's contribution to our heritage is reflected in the countless numbers of actors, directors and teachers who have been his students over the past 50 years - and counting!
In 
          any important performance, the actor is in danger, the actor is at risk.  
          An actor illuminates the material, reveals the playwright by revealing 
          some aspect of him or herself; often something private.
In 
          our theatre, there's a great deal of talk about "use yourself," or just 
          "be there."    In fact, that's very important.  
          It is the bottom line.  But it raises the essential question, "Which 
          self?"  The whole rehearsal process is based on discovering which 
          self the playwright wants you to bring to the work.
Copyright Michael Howard Studios 2004
I 
          taught at Juilliard in the drama division for eight years.  During 
          that period I continued my private class, working with actors who had 
          begun their professional careers.  Clearly the intensive training 
          at Juilliard had great value for all the participants at whatever level.  
          But there were also drawbacks to conservatory training.  Understandably, 
          the actor is not allowed to accept professional engagements; a difficult 
          restriction for some, an impossible restriction for others.  Further, 
          training institutions admit people into the first year when perhaps 
          the individual should have second-year work, or perhaps at the end of 
          six months the are really ready to move into the second or third year.    
          Obviously, none of this is possible.
Then 
          there is the problem of chemistry;  that very important relationship 
          between student and teachers.    It is not just a question 
          of what is being taught but how.  All teachers have seen that look 
          on the face of a student which says, "Oh, god, do I have to spend a 
          year with this person?"  It's like an arranged marriage, it's daunting.   
          In this studio students sign up for one month at a time.  It's 
          hard to maintain this organizationally, even financially, but everyone 
          in my class is in the seat because that's where he or she wants to be.  
          I think that's important.  Also these people have limited study 
          time and money.  It's possible for me to say, "Listen, stop my 
          class, concentrate on your voice work and then come back."   
          Actors construct their own "university program."
Acting 
          is easy - it's not a desperately complicated process.  Some children 
          have done it startlingly well, brilliantly well, in ways that make you 
          gulp.  The hard part is becoming an artist - which means 
          using all of you, not just the comfortable part, not just the part the 
          child uses easily and quickly, not just the part "they" buy and want 
          again and again.    It is when you begin to use the dreadful 
          parts, the secret parts, as well as the hero parts that the word "artist" 
          begins to have a very special meaning.    And that takes 
          time.  It can happen without any help from anybody, it cannot happen 
          without work.  It happens more efficiently with study.
The 
          vast majority of actors who study at this studio have a goodly amount 
          of previous training.  And the teachers who teach here come from 
          very different backgrounds.  I think we would all agree that our 
          job is to help them define their own method.  Young actors today 
          ask me, "Do you do Meisner?" or "Do you do Strasberg?"  It's all 
          rather faddish.  When I'm asked, "What is Michael Howard's method?"  
          I run.  I say, "I don't have a method of acting.  I suppose 
          I have a method of training."  I think it's a bit slick but I think 
          it's true.  I work with actors individually to develop their own 
          "method."
MICHAEL HOWARD  
          Founder/Director. Michael Howard Studios, New York
Reprinted by permission 
          from the January 1995 issue of American Theatre Magazine published by 
          TCG
When Michael saw the magazine article he had an artist take the image and incorporate the harlequin figure; symbolizing theatrical tradition.
I 
          tell the actors the world needs us desperately, whether the world recognizes 
          it or not.  I demand that they prepare themselves to be the best 
          actors they can be.  A life in the American theatre means to do 
          (and do well) commercials, a great play which no one sees, a soap for 
          a few years, a lousy movie that everyone sees, a great part in a movie 
          that leads to nothing.  I think it's a splendid way to spend a 
          life.  If you're lucky, if you hang on long enough, and if you 
          ready yourself as an artist, you will get work.    There's 
          struggle and pain, but I think making a life in the theatre is worth 
          it.
COMING SOON!!
So, more briefly put, the logo represents:
geniuses at play.
"Self-Marketing"
"About Our Logo"
There 
          are actors - Dustin Hoffman is one - working in the commercial theatre 
          who insist that the industry let them stretch, who insist that they 
          use the clown part of them or the woman part of them.    
          They force themselves to go out and find those parts.  And they 
          become artists.  Those who keep repeating, don't.  The actors 
          who aren't getting that kind of opportunity in the business and need 
          a place to extend their work are the ones I can help.  Not teach 
          them how to act, but to help them develop, grow, extend.