
September 2006

Building 
                  is under way on Straight Road, Lexden, Colchester and all ready 
                  one of these highly sought after bungalows has been reserved. 
                  These bungalows are in a great location and are fully serviced 
                  by all local amenities. There are two remaining now and they 
                  are priced at £249,995. For further information or to 
                  view the plans, please call our agents Palmer and Partners on 
                  01206 572233
Date: Saturday 6th and Sunday 7th March 2004 - Open weekend Aldeburgh
June 2004
    Great Tey

    Planning has been granted for a four bedroom detached house in Great Tey, Nr 
    Colchester.  Close to a mainline station to Liverpool Street.  The 
    house will benefit from having views over open fields to the front and the 
    rear.  Work will begin late summer 2004


To receive updates on this development, complete the form 
    on the contact us page
April 2006
And 
                  then there was one... 
                  Ash House is reserved - Chestnut House is the last remaining 
                  plot at Woodside at Thurston Now really 
                  is the time to buy a unique family home in this exclusive development 
                  of just 6 houses in a beautiful rural location but very close 
                  to the Heritage market town of Bury St Edmunds. If 
                  you would like to visit the site  
                  please call us today on 01206 323666 or go to our Woodside 
                  at Thurston pages on this website for more details.
July 2006
                  The Dedham Vale Business Centre
Planning 
                  permission has been granted for a 22,000 square ft. office and 
                  crafts development with ample car parking in Dedham. Michel 
                  Howard Homes will be creating a wonderful working environment 
                  in the heart of the Dedham Vale and giving businesses of all 
                  sizes the opportunity to purchase freehold their own contemporary 
                  office premises within a small business development in this 
                  highly sought after area. Dedham provides the ideal place for 
                  a business whilst offering the peace and quiet of the surrounding 
                  countryside, access to the major road networks is very close 
                  by, the A12 being only a few minutes away. These offices will 
                  be built to a very high specification as would be expected from 
                  Michael Howard Homes and will feature all the latest technology. 
                  Building will commence in November 2006 for completion by November 
                  2007. For further details please contact our agent Nicholas 
                  Percival on 01206 563222.
Date: January 2004
June 2004
    Old Martlesham

    Building has commenced at the site on Bealings Road, Old Martlesham.  
    Two of the three properties are currently available, the first of which is 
    due for completion by the end of 2004.  Please see our present 
    developments page on this website or contact us for further details.

To receive updates on this development, complete the form 
    on the contact us page
August 2006
                  The Dedham Hall Business Centre
Planning 
                  permission has been granted for a 3,960 square ft. office and 
                  crafts development with ample car parking in a central location 
                  in Dedham. This will comprise of 6 units of approx 660 sq.ft 
                  each in 4 separate buildings. This small business development 
                  will be built to a very high specification in a contemporary 
                  style featuring all the latest in technology and is within walking 
                  distance of Dedham High Street. The units will be for sale at 
                  £220 per sq.ft freehold. Building works will commence 
                  in October with completion due in April 2007. For further details 
                  please contact our agent Nicholas Percival on 01206 563222 or 
                  visit www.mhcommercial.co.uk 
                  www.mhcommercial.co.uk
February 2006
Woodside, Thurston, 
                  Nr Bury St Edmunds 
Building is well under way now at 
                  Woodside and Plot 7 has been reserved all ready! We now have 
                  our brochure ready giving full details of this unique development, 
                  please call us to receive your copy and to visit the site on 
                  01206 323666.
To receive updates on this development, complete the form 
    on the contact us page



Date: 1st September 2003
May 2006
Chestnut 
                  House at Woodside Thurston has now been reserved
This fabulous development is 
                  progresing well with the first home ready by the end of May. 
                  Michael Howard Homes have created a unique development of just 
                  six executive homes in a rural and secluded location nestling 
                  within a site of matured trees. These homes, built to the highest 
                  specifications and using reclaimed materials where practical 
                  will blend in with the countryside from the day they are complete. 
                  If you are interested in owning a Michael Howard Home, please 
                  call us or complete the form on the contact 
                  us page and we will keep you informed of our future developments.
April 2006
Last chance - 
                  only 2 houses remaining at Woodside, Thurston, Nr Bury St Edmunds
There are only two of these fantastic 
                  family homes available, Woodside is in a great rural location, 
                  yet only minutes away from a very good road and rail network. 
                  Ash House our 5 bedroomed show home will be available for viewing 
                  with in the next month, shortly to be followed by Chestnut House, 
                  the final 4 bedroom family home currently under construction. 
                  If you would like to visit the site  
                  please give us a call today on 01206 323666 or go to our Woodside 
                  at Thurston pages on this website
December 2006

The Dedham Hall 
                  Business Centre - All sold
This 
                  small development of freehold offices have all been reserved 
                  prior to completion of the site. There is still the chance to 
                  own a freehold office built by MH Commercial ( A subsiduary 
                  of Michael Howard Homes) as a new development The 
                  Dedham Vale Business Centre 
                  will be commencing early February of 11 business units in a 
                  superb out-of-town location. For 
                  further details please contact our agent Nicholas Percival on 
                  01206 563222 or visit 
www.mhcommercial.co.uk
Aldeburgh
Planning consent has 
    been granted for a 3 bedroom New England style property on Saxmundham Road 
    in the much sought after Suffolk coastal town of Aldeburgh.  Building 
    will commence in the autumn 2004.


To receive updates on this development, complete the form 
    on the contact us page
Planning 
    consent has been granted for a new four-bedroom detached house set in mature 
    gardens in the heart of the village of Holbrook.  Work will commence at 
    the beginning of March 2004.
January 2007
Norton, Bury 
                  St Edmunds
Building 
                  will commence shortly in the village of Norton of a contemporary 
                  style luxury new 6 bedroomed home with a large paddock garden. 
                  The spacious accommodation will be over 3 floors and will include 
                  a large family room off the hand built, fully fitted kitchen 
                  leading to a garden room with a feature wooden vaulted ceiling. 
                  With today's planning restrictions it is unusual to find a large 
                  single house being built in the countryside.
August 2005
                  Thurston - Planning permission granted for 6 individual executive 
                  homes
Micheal Howard Homes has been granted 
                  planning permission to build 6 individual luxury family homes 
                  on the edge of the Suffolk village of Thurston. 
                  These houses will be situated in mature grounds in a private 
                  location. They will be 4 and 5 bedroomed houses and have a guide 
                  price between £575,000 and £825,000. Building will 
                  commence in October 2005 and with conservation and the environment 
                  in mind as with all Michael Howard Homes, these houses will 
                  be built empathetically to their surroundings and using re-claimed 
                  materials where possible. For more information about these properties, 
                  please contact our office on 01206 323666.

August 2005
                  Holbrook
Micheal Howard Homes has bought a 
                  4 bedroom family home in the centre of the sought after Suffolk 
                  village of Holbrook for a complete refurbishment. The house 
                  is next to the church and set in beautiful mature gardens, it 
                  will have a new kitchen and 2 new bathrooms. there is a detached 
                  garage and private drive. RESERVED

July 2005
Lodge 
                  construction has eye on the future - 
                  Genoa 
                  Lodge, Waldringfield
Open 
                  weekend - Come and view at your leisure
                  Saturday 30th July 10am – 4pm and Sunday 31st July 11am 
                  – 2pm
March 2006
Only 3 plots 
                  remaining at Woodside, Thurston, Nr Bury St Edmunds
Three plots have now been reserved 
                  at Woodside, so only three are left! Plot 7 is sold and plots 
                  5 and 6 are reserved. If you would like further details of this 
                  unique development and the chance to be involved in personalising 
                  your next new home in this fantastic location, please give us 
                  a call to arrange a site visit today on 01206 323666 or go to 
                  our Woodside 
                  at Thurston pages on this website
January 2007
                  Dedham - New Home
Michael 
                  Howard Homes have been appointed the main contractors for the 
                  construcion of a new farmhouse style home in excess of 4,600 
                  sq ft in Dedham, by the local farmer. They have been chosen 
                  due to their long standing professional experience of building 
                  luxury houses in the Dedham Vale area and their attention to 
                  detail and empathy with the surroundings that they build in. 
                  This home will be one of the most prestigious houses in Dedham.
July 2006
Bungalows in 
                  Lexden 
Planning 
                  permission has been granted for 2 new 3 bedroom bungalows and 
                  one refurbished 2 bedroom bungalow on Straight Road, Lexden, 
                  Colchester. Building will commence September 2006 for completion 
                  Spring 2007.
Way O' The Wind, 
    Saxmundham Road, Aldeburgh will be open for the weekend to pop in and view.   
    This is a family home built in the 1920's and has been sympathetically 
    restored and retains some interesting features.  For more information 
    please visit our present developments page on this website.
Michael Howard 
    Homes has acquired a site at Old Martlesham for 3 detached family homes.  
    Planning is applied for.
Michael 
                  Howard Homes is building a New England-style home in the Suffolk 
                  village of Waldringfield aimed at holiday home owners and people 
                  who are planning now for their retirement.
                  The stunning three-bedroom property offers luxury accommodation 
                  for homeowners who may enjoy good health and mobility now, but 
                  who may need their accommodation to be more versatile as they 
                  get older.
                  Genoa Lodge in Waldringfield is spacious and luxurious and does 
                  not compromise on quality, but also takes into account the needs 
                  of people getting older. There would be no need to move again 
                  should circumstances make the owners less able.”
                  The ground floor of Genoa Lodge features a large bedroom with 
                  en suite shower room and a spacious, open plan living area with 
                  a feature vaulted ceiling. This area would enable self-contained 
                  ground floor living should it ever be required. Upstairs there 
                  is a master bedroom with en-suite bathroom, and a second bedroom 
                  with an en-suite shower room.
                  An integrated vacuuming system has been installed so there is 
                  no need to carry a heavy vacuum cleaner around the house. Each 
                  floor has connections for a lightweight hose and the system 
                  connects to a cylinder in the garage, which only requires emptying 
                  two or three times a year.
                  In keeping with the Colonial New England style, the property 
                  features a maintenance-free cladding exterior finish, steep 
                  roof slope and dormer windows.
                  Genoa Lodge at Waldringfield is on a large plot with mature 
                  trees and features a single cart lodge garage. Genoa Lodge is 
                  just a few minutes walk to the waters edge of the river Deben.
                  “We have chosen to build Genoa Lodge in a village that 
                  has good amenities, a great sailing club and which is a traditionally 
                  popular community in which to relax or retire” added Adrian 
                  Mann.
Genoa 
                  Lodge is due for completion by the middle of July. The property 
                  has a freehold price £435,000.
For 
                  more information about this property please see our  
                  present developments page 

January 2005
                  Capel St Mary
Planning 
                  consent has been granted at Capel St Mary for a substantial 
                  four bedroom detached traditional farmhouse style property.  
                  This property will be within walking distance 
                  of local shops and amenities and is conveniently situated in 
                  a quiet village location yet only 5 minutes from the A12.
  To 
                  receive updates on this development, complete the form on the 
                  contact us page   
                  January 2005
                  Two Luxury apartments and a bungalow in Stratford St Mary
Planning 
                  consent has been granted for two luxury apartments and a two 
                  bedroom bungalow in a stunning location beside the river in 
                  the heart of Stratford St Mary.  This much sought after 
                  village set in the renowned Constable country offers good local 
                  amenities and great access to the A12.
  To 
                  receive updates on this development, complete the form on the 
                  contact us page   
January 
                  2005
Raydon
                  A planning application has now been granted to build a traditional 
                  style four bedroom detached property in the village of Raydon.  
                  This house will occupy a good size plot with mature trees to 
                  the front and rear.  It is in a non-estate position and 
                  only 5 minutes from the A12.  It is planned that this property 
                  will be built to the same exacting standards expected from Michael 
                  Howard Homes, using reclaimed roof tiles and other materials 
                  where possible.  
  To 
                  receive updates on this development, complete the form on the 
                  contact us page   

July 2004
                  Old Martlesham - only one remaining
Only 
                  one of the three properties currently under construction at 
                  Old Martlesham is still available for sale. for further details 
                  of Orchard House,  please 
                  see our  
                  present developments page
May 2004
    Waldringfield
A 
    planning application is in for a 3 bed chalet style property on a good size 
    plot about 5 minutes walk from the water front of this pretty Suffolk 
    village.


To receive updates on this development, complete the form 
    on the contact us page
March 2004

    Developer uses new technology to protect oak trees during construction