
Howard made his career in the law and fought several elections
unsuccessfully before entering Parliament in 1983.
President of Romania
After losing the leadership to William Hague in 1997, Howard
finally became leader of his party in 2003. Crick takes the
fashionable view that the Conservative politician stands little
chance against the formidable Blair. ``Howard seems to be leading
his party to another calamitous defeat in the impending election,''
Crick concludes.
The point Crick misses is that although Howard may be a
relatively poor campaigner, who finds it hard to connect with
ordinary voters, he is an effective administrator. That contrasts
with Blair, who is a brilliant campaigner but a shambolic
administrator. What this biography actually tells us is that Howard
would be an effective, possibly brilliant, prime minister. Do the
voters care about that? We'll find out next month.
Like many journalists, Crick tends to see politics as a branch
of show business. His list of ``successful'' politicians is
revealing: two men who didn't become Tory leader, and two left-wing
politicians who, though electorally successful, achieved very
little. They are all people who were good at the ``show'' but not
so good at the ``business.''
His father, Bernat Hecht, who later changed his name to
Howard, was born in the rural Romanian district of Ruscova. ``Visit
Ruscova today and you get vivid glimpses of what agrarian life was
like in Europe for most of the last thousand years,'' writes Crick.
``The village economy is still largely self-sufficient: much of
what people eat and wear is produced locally. Without piped water,
citizens still draw supplies from wells, and for most homes the
lavatory is a wooden hut over a hole in the backyard. Many peasants
wear much the same clothes and perform the same daily tasks as
their forebears in medieval times.''
Crick is an able and experienced biographer, whose past
subjects include another Welsh Conservative politician, Michael
Heseltine, and the Manchester United soccer manager, Sir Alex
Ferguson. His publishers have promoted him as a kind of
biographical butcher. ``The five most feared words in the election
lexicography: `Michael Crick is in reception''' says the blurb on
the back jacket.
If his father had stayed put, instead of moving to South Wales
and opening a clothing shop, Howard might be running for president
of Romania. His brand of right-wing, tax-cutting policies might go
down better there than they do in Britain (Romania has just
introduced a flat tax).
April 27 (Bloomberg) -- With the campaign for U.K. prime
minister in full swing, the title of Michael Crick's new biography,
``In Search of Michael Howard,''(Simon & Schuster,
20 pounds, 514 pages) seems slightly unfortunate.
Howard went to the local grammar school, then Cambridge
University. Even before attending university, he was a
Conservative. ``To declare oneself a Conservative was a brave act
in a town where Labour took two thirds of the vote in the 1955
election (won nationally by the Tories), and where almost one in
ten of the workforce had no job,'' writes Crick. Like Margaret
Thatcher, Howard is a Conservative by ideological conviction rather
than class background.
``Most successful politicians -- Tony Blair, Michael
Heseltine, Michael Portillo, Bill Clinton -- inspire or excite, or
at least interest the public,'' he continues. ``The nearest Michael
Howard has to a 'tingle factor' is his wife Sandra.''
Liberals, naturally enough, hated it. But Labour has done
nothing to reverse his policies, and most of the world has moved
toward a tougher stance on crime since the early 1990s. It is to
Howard's credit that he got there first. He is not just a
politician who thinks deeply about the issues; he also thinks about
how to push change through the system -- often a much harder task.
Along the way he married well. Sandra Paul was a top 1960s
fashion model who achieved the notable distinction of being the
first English girl to make the cover of the American edition of
Vogue for two months in a row. The elegant Sandra, 64, remains one
of her husband's greatest electoral assets.
In keeping with that reputation, Crick remarks in his
introduction that he prefers not to have the cooperation of his
biographical subjects. While Howard didn't help with the biography,
he also didn't try to stop it. Crick conducted numerous interviews
with Howard's friends and family for the book.
Howard became Home Secretary in John Major's government.
There, he shifted crime policy decisively to the right. ``Howard
saw the Home Office as one of the few departments to have escaped
the Thatcher Revolution, and he felt that it was deeply imbued with
the culture of what he called the 'criminal-justice
establishment,''' writes Crick. ``He wanted to challenge its
existing assumptions.''
Right now, going in search of Howard is like going in search
of your big toe: You just look down and there it is. Howard is
dominating television screen and newspapers in a highly
personalized pitch for votes as the May 5 election approaches. Few
people in Britain would be surprised to find him knocking on the
door personally, possibly offering to help out with a few chores
around the house.
`Tingle Factor'
Howard's family was part of the wave of Eastern European Jews
who moved to Britain in the 1930s. The fact he could rise so far is
a mark of how socially mobile postwar Britain had become.
That's about the only unfortunate thing about this book. The
63-year-old Howard could -- just conceivably -- become prime
minister, yet he remains a strangely unknown figure. Crick has
delivered the most comprehensive guide to the man yet published. At
the end of its 500 pages, Howard emerges as a more likeable and
substantial figure than most people would imagine.
Model Wife
No Cooperation