
He dubbed this driving force: "A perverted, twisted and totally immoral depiction of extreme Islam."
University College Hospital chief executive Robert Naylor said Barry was expected to check out in the next couple of days.
LONDON (AFP) - Australia's Prime Minister John Howard denied any link between the London bombings and the Iraq war as he visited two Australian victims of the attack during a trip to the British capital.
"My response was, I didn't believe it was," he told reporters.
Later Wednesday, Howard was due to launch a two-year Australian contemporary arts programme at a London hotel before going to the watch an Australian ballet, a spokeswoman for the Australian High Commission in London said.
"I think both of them are quite remarkable," Howard said.
Howard praised the courage of Barry, from Port Stephens, New South Wales, who has a serious neck injury after being caught in the blast on a Number 30 bus, and is recovering at London's University College Hospital.
On Thursday, he will hold separate meetings with Blair, finance minister Gordon Brown and Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, with a joint news conference planned with the British and Australian leaders.

July 20th, 2005  2:01 pm
Australia's Howard denies link between London bombings and Iraq war
Michael Howard used John Howard's former chief strategist Lynton Crosby to help his party at the British general election in May, at which the Conservatives lost to Blair's Labour Party for the third straight time.
In total, nine Australians were injured in the explosions, including one who subsequently died, 28-year-old Sam Ly, 28 from Melbourne, who was also on the targeted bus.
After stopping at two London hospitals, he told reporters that one of the injured, Louise Barry, 29, had asked him whether he thought the July 7 attack was related to the conflict in Iraq, which Australia has strongly supported.
Howard, who flew to Britain earlier in the morning from the United States where he met US President George W. Bush, was due to hold talks with Prime Minister Tony Blair on Thursday as well as other senior ministers.
Echoing words spoken Tuesday by Blair, Howard said, "I remind you that terrorist attacks occurred before Iraq was on the radar screen, and those people who argue that this is really because of Iraq simply ignore those facts."
The spokeswoman for the High Commission, the equivalent for an embassy for countries who are members of the Commonwealth, was unable to say what subjects would be covered in the talks, but said one would certainly be the London suicide bombings, in which at least 56 people died.
Howard was scheduled to meet Defence Secretary John Reid on Friday and has also arranged to meet members of the main opposition Conservative Party, including leader Michael Howard.
He also had warm words for the other victim he visited, Gillian Hicks, 37, from Adelaide, who was critically injured in one of the subway rail blasts, but is slowly improving at St Thomas's Hospital.
Howard said the motivation was the same as that which prompted the October 2002 bombing of a nightclub in Bali, where 202 people died, including 88 Australians, which was before the March 2003 US-led invasion of Iraq.
The Australian prime minister is spend the weekend privately -- likely to mean watching some of the Ashes cricket series between England and Australia -- before heading home.