



Michael
            Howard has launched the party's 2005 general election campaign with
            a rousing rallycall to the country to abandon the failed policies of
            Tony Blair's Labour Party and turn to the Conservatives to give the
            nation a fresh start.
Not
            as far as we know.  Should he not be promising voters that he
            will put a halt to the extraordinary waste of ratepayers money
            brought on by corrupt planning officers.  We estimate this
            waste to be in the order of £10 million per council.  That
            adds up to a tidy sum.  Enough to bail out just about every
            other shortage in public funding.
Why
            do you think politicians need to resort to stealth taxes?
Michael
            Howard MP

We
            need honest taxes for honest purposes?  We need an efficient
            government and an efficient local government.  We do not need
            dishonest local officials milking the system for their own
            purposes.  Building empires.  We need affordable housing,
            decent schools, and sensibly priced services.  At the moment
            council tax is crippling most folk.  Not to mention the fact is
            is a grossly unfair tax aimed only at people who are sitting
            targets.
Neither
            the Conservatives or New Labour have tackled white collar crime at
            local council level.  Both of these parties allow local
            council's to run riot with your money - allow council officers to
            deceive councillors and torture the public by refusing to answer
            reasonable questions, the threatening citizens with legal action,
            where these same planning officers know developments are permitted,
            and is some cases harassing members of the public to bankruptcy, at
            huge expense to the ratepayer - See Staffordshire
            County Council and Brian Goodacre
            as prime examples.  The major political parties are simply
            Chicken.
Nelson
            Kruschandl says : "It's Time for Change"

Howard:
              The issues that matter to hard working Britons

Speaking before the Prime Minister travelled from Downing Street to
            Buckingham Palace to ask the Queen to dissolve Parliament, Mr Howard
            put his party on the front foot with a promise to "do the best
            for Britain" with an action programme that would reward the
            hardworking law abiding majority, while delivering improved school
            discipline, cleaner hospitals, more police on the streets and
            controlled immigration.
But
            has he said anything about tackling council corruption?

Can
            the Conservatives under Michael Howard, deliver the above?
Take
            Road Tax.  This tax was introduced to pay for road building,
            yet only about 5% actually goes to build roads.  The rest is
            diverted to support other high spend areas, such as protecting
            crooked planning officers.
Michael
            Howard launches Conservative Election Campaign
Michael
      and Sandra
Then
            as soon as the Human Rights Act looked set to give the common man a
            chance, they changed the rules regarding Legal Aid funding, making
            it almost impossible to obtain representation and justice.
CONSERVATIVE
    PARTY LINKS :
Kicking off the party campaign in the courtyard of a central London
            hotel, he declared: "The choice before the voters on May 5 is
            very clear: they can either reward Mr Blair for eight years of
            broken promises and vote for another five years of talk; or they can
            vote Conservative, to support a party that's taken a stand and is
            committed to action on the issues that matter to hard working
            Britons."

            Insisting that the Labour government has "lost the plot",
            Mr Howard accused Tony Blair of taking honest hardworking people for
            granted, and failing to recognise how worried NHS patients are about
            hospital infections, how pensions are fearful of rising crime, and
            how parents fear that their children cannot learn in class because
            of the lack of proper school discipline.

            Denouncing the way Labour has frittered away huge tax incomes with
            little improvement in public services, Mr Howard offered a
            "better way" which would help those who "do the right
            thing and play by the rules".

            He said the Conservative timetable for action would build a
            brighter, better future for the country, with more value for money
            and lower taxes, with discipline restored to schools, with hospital
            matrons given the power to close wards infected with MRSA; with
            reduced crime, and an extra 5000 more police officers on the streets
            each year backed by tougher sentences for burglars and drug dealers;
            and controlled immigration with an annual limit on the number of
            people who can settle in Britain.

            He declared: "Some people say I shouldn't talk about difficult
            issues like the abuse of our asylum system and those travellers who
            stick two fingers up to the law. But we cannot make Britain a better
            place if we sweep difficult issues under the carpet. Everyone knows
            you won't fix a problem if you aren't even prepared to discuss
            it."

            Mr Howard said he was not prepared to appease special interest
            groups, and wanted all Britons to play by the same rules.

            Buoyed up by improving opinion poll surveys and a party brimming
            with confidence and enthusiasm, Mr Howard said that while the Prime
            Minister was already secretly grinning about the prospect of his
            third victory, there was no reason why the country had to deliver
            Labour a third term in Downing Street.

            And in a clear message to the electorate he embarked on a vigorous
            four week nationwide campaign declaring: "If you're thinking
            what we're thinking, it's time for urgent action on the things that
            really matter: reward for hardworking Britons; school discipline;
            cleaner hospitals; more police; and controlled immigration. So I say
            again, the choice before voters on May the fifth is very clear. They
            can either reward Mr. Blair for eight years of broken promises and
            vote for another five years of talk. Or they can vote Conservative,
            to support a party that's taken a stand and is committed to action
            on the issues that matter to hard working Britons."
We
            doubt it.  The Conservatives have not tackled white collar
            crime at local council level before.  true they commissioned
            Lord Nolan to look into the situation.  But as soon as the
            awful truth emerged via a recommendation for new criminal statute to
            tackle malicious use of public funds and personal vendettas, they
            hastily put the brakes on.  Cowards.