
  Profile: Michael K. Howard

Danka is "very customer-intensive and very people-intensive," Howard said.

"I've long been tracking the document imaging work-flow industry," he said, "and I always felt the peripheral manufacturers had a role. I think it's an industry that's not ever fulfilled itself. I hope to be part of that fulfillment at Danka."
Howard said he recently attended his 25th class reunion at Princeton University, where he graduated in 1977 with a bachelor's degree in economics. Upon graduation, he joined General Electric's financial management training program in Milwaukee.
PREVIOUS POSITION: Senior vice president, client solutions, Gartner Inc., Stamford, Conn.
Howard said he thinks the peripheral industry -- faxes, copiers, printers, multifunction machines -- is largely underused in offices. "Customers don't take advantage of them nearly as much as they could," he said. "We want to drive up the utilization and exploitation of these machines."
"The way we make money in this business is to make sure our people are being employed at our customer sites and being valued for the work they can deliver on site," he said, "and our revenue growth is dependent on acquiring talented people our customers can trust."
"And there will be considerable travel outside that," he said, with regular trips to other "U.S. major hubs of business," including Atlanta and points in Tennessee, Southern California, the New York City-Washington-Boston corridor and the Great Lakes area.
He said the future will bring even more opportunities for use in the traditional office, including voice-activation, video and music-streaming options. "That would all be part of the office solutions," he said.
Howard joined Price Waterhouse as a systems consultant in 1982, then four years later joined Gartner Inc., a research and consulting company in Stamford, Conn., as a consulting manager. He left Gartner for six years, from 1994 to 2000, to work for Xerox Corp., then rejoined Gartner in its client solutions division.
Howard is married and has three children. He will turn 47 on July 4. "As a kid, I grew up thinking those fireworks were for me," he said. "I still have to have picnics and lots of hoopla around my birthday."
His role at Danka will be to consolidate the company's "digital solution services to our customers mainly by organizing systems engineering as a singular group," he said. Currently, such services are "divided between high-volume and middle-volume business, and I want to link in the digital solutions centers so we have a seamless approach to building and prototyping our ongoing solutions for our customer support."

"Basically, I became very enamored of systems and decided I wanted to focus on that," he said.
Although he will be based in Rochester, N.Y., Michael Howard, newly appointed senior vice president of professional services at Danka Business Systems, will be spending at least a week a month at company headquarters in St. Petersburg.
"I'm pretty much used to being a road warrior," Howard said.
NEW POSITION: Senior vice president, professional services group, Danka Business Systems, Rochester, N.Y.
Howard describes himself as "pretty much a computer nerd, but not on the extreme side. I didn't grow up as a programmer, but I've been around computers since I started out of school."