
Two facts about Michael Howard
Drug dealer tried to call Howard as trial witness
Mr Howard is selfish and without a conscience.
Yet again, the Conservative press and other mainstream media, not to mention the New Labour hierachy, are completely unwilling to talk about the issue of organised drug-related crime and politicians. Remember the brief scandal concerning Lord Ashcroft, the Tory peer who briefly made the headlines after the British High Commissioner for Belize wrote an open letter to the press doubting the credentials of this man for a peerage after one of his ships was seized by the US Drug Enforcement Agency? Again, nobody suggested Ashcroft was directly involved but, under the circumstances, isn’t it the job of the media to ask questions in such cases?
Mr Howard wishes to withdraw from the Geneva Convention in Relation to the Treatment of Refugees.
Mr Howard wishes to set a quota on the number of Asylum seekers that the UK can take, leaving many in desperate need and in danger of death.
Its a scandal that this issue concerning Howard’s royal pardon for a drug dealer, irrespective of Howard’s family’s involvement, has not made the mainstream news. Even if there is no suggestion of impropriety, it raises massive questions about the competance of a politician who revels in his tough-guy image and bleats endlessly about the early release of relatively minor offenders.
EDITORS NOTE - we have left this comment in place in the interest of freedom of speech - however, please don’t think the abhorrent racism expressed reflects anyone’s beliefs apart from the commenter himself

I am a student and having labour as our government is very difficult. Howard is a jew and we all know how jews think (isreal killing innocent people). even though i hate labour, i would still vote for them over howard.
Compare this non-existent scrutiny of politicians to the obsessive reporting of David Blunkett’s misdemeanours. Sure, Blunkett abused his position in a way that I’m sure most politicians have at some stage or another but fast-tracking a visa hardly compares to releasing a dangerous gangster less than a year into an 18 year sentence.
Michael Howard is a shameless opportunist self-important low life. He thinks that by stirring up racial hatred among the British people he would be fit to form the next government. He should remember that he is a Jew, a minority class just like the other minorities. The British have not given him the right to pretend that he appears to be the native. Come the day that he would be treated as a minority when the British people open their eyes to his mischievous cunning ways to con them the votes.
Why did Howard release two dangerous gangsters?