

Michael Howard, the Conservative leader since late last year, has been trying to schedule a brief visit to the White House. Such photo-ops are customarily accorded leaders of the Opposition, even Neil Kinnock, the left wing Labour leader who lost two general elections, got the honor from Ronald Reagan.
New York
THE REVOLUTIONARY POLITICS of the post-September 11 world have claimed another victim--the ties that bind politically like-minded Anglo-Saxons
Even so, the Bushies surely have a point.
So the Rove snub has been greeted with indignation by some of the Tories' friends. In two identically-titled op-eds in Wednesday's press "Why snub the Tories?", Peter Stothard, a former editor of the London Times, and Anne Applebaum, in the Wall Street Journal and Washington Post respectively, chided the Bushies for behaving like petulant teenagers.
It is true that the Tories have a lot more in common with the Republican party than Labour. Bush's sometimes overly personal approach to diplomacy might occasionally lead to political misjudgments. Bush is, viscerally, hated by about 80 percent of the Labour party and at least half of Tony Blair's cabinet, most of whose members offer nightly prayers for a John Kerry victory in November.
The trouble is that the party that has produced ideological icons for American conservatives from the Duke of Wellington to Winston Churchill to Margaret Thatcher, has been cold-shouldered by the Bush White House. And all because of Iraq.
Trailing in British public opinion polls, Howard has been behaving in ways that look at best cynical, at worst, Kerryesque. When the House of Commons voted to authorize the Iraq war in March 2003, the then Tory number two was an enthusiastic backer. As the British public soured on the war in the ensuing months, Howard backpedaled furiously.
A hapless bunch of British Tories made the rounds at the GOP convention this week reassuring just about anyone who would listen that they really, truly, honestly are the Republicans' best friends.
It is impossible not to feel a twinge of sympathy for Britain's top Tory. There are few greater Americophiles in the House of Commons. As Home secretary in the last Conservative
But earlier this year, Howard was told in fairly blunt terms by Karl Rove that he was not going to get his ticket to the Oval office. "You can forget about meeting the president full stop," Rove was reported by the Sun newspaper last weekend as saying. "Don't bother coming , you are not meeting him." According to the Sun, the White House was furious that Howard had attacked Tony Blair, their staunch ally, over Iraq, calling on the prime minister to resign over his conduct.