
Michael Howard
Americas Issue: February 2004
Sun, February 1. 2004
No, I was caught up in it. Everything that people were thinking was going to happen will happen; it’s just that it hasn’t happened as quickly as we thought. We continue to see a doubling or tripling of Internet traffic every year. It may not be every 90 days like it used to be, but there’s still a lot of growth. For one thing, there’s video coming; people will be able to get it as easily over their phones as on their TV at some point.
I think one of the things Infonetics has always done is be more conservative in its predictions. We don’t just listen to manufacturers or carriers.
Principal analyst 
and co-founder, Infonetics Research

Is the management corruption uncovered lately at some telecom companies a reflection of the industry or simply a sign of the times?
I think economies just have to adjust. A lot of people like to use the example of railroads in the 1800s. It was a disruptive technology and it allowed communications to a better extent in that the mails were carried more quickly, and goods were more easily transported, and that changed the social order. Telecom isn’t moving actual goods, but it’s moving information, which is along the same lines, and it will have a huge impact on how people and governments around the world do business.

I saw a quote from management consultant Peter Drucker a year or so ago that four times in the past 100 years we’ve seen the pendulum swing back and forth between governments getting too lax on corporations, corporations taking advantage as a result, and the government getting tougher again. Right now I think you could say the pendulum is swinging back. Certainly, technology is changing the social fabric of the world, and when it’s a time for entering new territory, the rules haven’t really been written about how people should act, and so companies naturally take advantage.
Still a resident of northern California, Howard says he enjoys diving on the weekends for abalone, a single-valve mollusk that can be found attached to the rocks near shore at low tide. “The meat is delicate and tasty and so good. You’re allowed to collect three a day and up to 50 a year, and from three abalone you can get something like a pound or two of meat,” Howard says. “After I get a couple of hours in the water, I end up feeling as refreshed as if I had spent a couple of days in the mountains.”
by Ted McKenna
At times, some analyst firms have seemed partial to publishing hockey-stick-shaped charts predicting massive growth in various industry segments. Were you ever guilty of that?
Looking back, too much money was invested in the telecom industry. Did you know that at the time?
Offline
Telecom helps make possible the outsourcing of jobs like software development to countries outside the U.S. Do you think that’s bad or good?
We try to find out who is buying what from manufacturers, and we check with manufacturers to see what they’ve actually shipped, so that we can come up with realistic estimates.
After his graduation from UC-Berkeley, Howard helped develop operating systems and programming language compilers for Arpanet, though he didn’t know that Arpanet would evolve into the global phenomenon called the Internet. “At the time, I thought it was amazing that all these different kinds of computers could talk to one another, and that scientists and researchers could talk with one another,” Howard says. “It was all absolutely fascinating, but there was no way I imagined it was going to become what it is.”
Living in the San Francisco Bay area in the 1960s and ’70s, Infonetics Research principal analyst and co-founder Michael Howard got to see the emergence of the free-speech movement first hand. So the question is, did he wear tie-dyed clothing and have long hair? “Oh, sure. I was a programmer, and the programmers that I worked with, we were the hippie types,” Howard says. “The engineers were more likely to wear the ties to work.”