

Following a period in Germany where he studied with
composer Stockhausen, Powell returned to England to take a music degree at
Cambridge. While there, he joined an electronic band called Intermodulation,
who were pioneering the use of synthesisers. "That band was really kind of
'a live electronic'. The kind of things that people had spent years in the
studio recording onto tape in the laborious ways that you had to do it in those
days. We worked with people like Stockhausen and John Cage, and other
composers."
Back to The Avenue Online Home Page
ANDREW POWELL
More recently, Powell did arrangements for Elaine
Paige and The Hollies.
Back to The Avenue Online
Biography Index
In 1994, Andrew joined Alan Parsons on Alan’s
first post-Project album. In addition to arranging and performing on "Try
Anything Once", he also wrote four of the songs. Powell also toured with
The Alan Parsons Live Project.
Andrew began his musical journey at the age of four
when he began taking piano lessons. Later he would learn orchestral percussion,
as well as the viola and violin. At the age of 11 he was writing scores for
school produced films, which Andrew describes as, "15 minute shorts
produced by the film society".
Selected Discography
Andrew’s early work with rock albums was on
Steve Harley & Cockney Rebel's 1973 debut album. "I had worked on
their first album and when it came around to their second album they wanted to
produce it themselves. The record company said, 'we want to put you together
with one of our engineers'. Alan was a very experienced engineer at this stage.
When it came to orchestration, Alan said 'I've got a guy', and Steve said 'no,
use the same guy as last time'". So, as fate would have it, "The
Psychomodo" would be the first album Powell and Parsons would work on
together, but certainly not the last.

When Alan Parsons decided to begin the historic
"Tales of Mystery and Imagination" album, Andrew would be called upon
to play an important role. Andrew said, "At it's very early stages I was
approached about this idea for this mammoth full-sized orchestra and choir.
Straight away it was right outside of their writing field of expertise."
Andrew's involvement shines through, especially on "The Fall of the House
of Usher", a track which could never sound the same without him. On
"I Robot" he would return to write "Total Eclipse", the
only APP track not written by Parsons and Woolfson.
Andrew Powell was born April 18, 1949 in London,
England.
Powell would appear on every album, with the exception
of one, "Vulture Culture". He also released an album featuring his
orchestral interpretations of APP tunes on his 1983 "Andrew Powell and The
Philharmonia Orchestra Plays The Best of The Alan Parsons Project".
For more about Andrew Powell, see Issue Two of The
Avenue.
Over the years, Powell has played many roles:
performer, writer, arranger, and producer. Among his production credits are
Kate Bush's first two albums, and the "Power" album by Kansas.
This page, copyright 2002 The Avenue / Avenue Communications.
In 1985, movie-goers attending the mystical
"Ladyhawke" were to hear the equally magical soundtrack. The
soundtrack was written by Powell, produced by Alan Parsons, and was performed
by an APP alumni: Ian Bairnson, David Paton, Stuart Elliott, and Richard
Cottle.
The two obviously enjoyed working together and have
worked jointly on albums for John Miles, Pilot, The Hollies, and Al Stewart.