
He 
              spotted a competition on the Vegetarian Society's website for a 
              gourmet veggie sandwich - and his inventive recipe beat hundreds 
              of entries from all over Britain to scoop first prize.
Method: 
              Chop garlic finely and fry over low heat with fenugreek seeds in 
              olive oil for two minutes. Add mushrooms and fry on medium heat 
              until soft. Add salt to release juices. Blend in food processor 
              with breadcrumbs and yoghurt. Butter bread and cover with chicory 
              leaves, sprinkle with sunflower seeds and add mushroom mixture and 
              black pepper. Enjoy!
Despite 
              his success Andrew has no plans to switch to a career in the catering 
              business, but admits he would love it if his invention was added 
              to the menu of Gloucestershire sandwich outlets.
"I 
              didn't dream I would get first prize. It's the first competition 
              I have ever won."
Vegetarian 
              Andrew Powell conjured up a culinary winner when he went looking 
              for a cookery course.
Andrew 
              really got the judges' tastebuds tingling with his innovative recipe 
              called Mushroom Bonanza which combines mushrooms, fenugreek seeds 
              and yogurt on a bed of chicory.
Andrew, 
              a 36-year-old computer expert who shares the cooking at home with 
              his fiancee Susana, won the perfect prize - a day course at the 
              Vegetarian Society's celebrated Cordon Vert Cookery School.
"I 
              think vegetarian sandwiches can be as exciting as meat-based sandwiches 
              and had an idea so I thought I'd give it a go.
The 
              BBC Gloucestershire web team also voted it a winner - so here's 
              the recipe if you would like to try it yourself.
Ingredients: 
              1 clove garlic, 1 tsp fenugreek seeds, olive oil, 100g field 
              mushrooms, 100g chanterelle mushrooms, a handful of breadcrumbs, 
              Greek yogurt (enough to mix and cover mushrooms), butter, malted 
              granary bread, 1 head chicory, 1 tsp sunflower seeds, salt and black 
              pepper to taste.
The 
              lifelong vegetarian said: "I was looking for a vegetarian cookery 
              school when I saw the competition.
Competition 
              judge Christine Walker, manager of the Cordon Vert Cookery School, 
              said: "On reading the ingredients I instantly wanted to make 
              the sandwich."
Mushroom 
              Bonanza
Do 
              you have a recipe you would like to share with BBC Gloucestershire's 
              readers? Or a cookery headache you would like our online chef to 
              solve? Get in touch here.