
Dr. Roy Tamashiro reported on the Research Study 
                he is working on with several other Webster University instructors. 
                They are building a model to determine how cable TV impacts student 
                learning. They are reviewing all the literature on the topic, 
                reviewing previous grant project final reports, and interviewing 
                project directors of past grants.
Jerry Troester announced that the upgrades and installations 
                from the final bid packages will be completed by the end of this 
                year. CableTEC will continue to add new distribution systems to 
                new classrooms. A survey has been sent to unincorporated schools 
                to see if they still need cable hookups in classrooms. These schools 
                in unincorporated areas without outlets in 2/3’s of the 
                classrooms may still receive them.
The meeting for the Educational Advisory Council was held in 
                the Arthritis Foundation Meeting room on October 15, 2003. Those 
                present were: Jerry Troester, Marlene Sachs, Dan Bain, Buzz Brown, 
                Judy Davis-Edwards, Bettie Downs, Randy Grissom, Carol Haukap, 
                Karen Hurst, Marteana Jones, Chris Klein, Diane Peterson, Helen 
                Petropoulos, Kathie Pontikes, Roy Tamashiro, Donna Unterreiner.
Flyers describing the Free Fall Workshops were also distributed. 
                If these have successful enrollments, additional workshops will 
                be offered next year. Suggestions for dates included after school 
                at 4:00, during school hours on a weekday, during the summer in 
                June or late August. Also, a course offered Online, would be flexible. 
                For additional topics, “Improving your Map Scores” 
                was offered as a great subject to entice teachers. A course on 
                copyright laws and requirements was also suggested. Some of the 
                workshops could also be offered at Conferences on a state or local 
                level. Members are encouraged to spread the word about the FREE 
                Workshops throughout their schools.
Marlene Sachs announced that this year’s grants are underway. 
                There were 7 General Grants, 4 Continuation Grants and 5 Lewis 
                and Clark Grants. More information and descriptions can be found 
                on the CableTEC website at www.showmecable.org/grants.htm Members 
                are asked to suggest new ideas for next year’s Topic Specific 
                Grant. In addition to grant recipients participating at the Show-Me 
                Networks conference, a Call for Presenters will be made.
The Academy of Workshops projected topics were 
                distributed and additional suggestions were offered, like creating 
                Multimedia programs. Also creating a partnership with the NTTI 
                National Teacher Training Institute was suggested. Their workshops 
                use mentors as teachers and there are several master teachers 
                for this program in the St. Louis area. Preferred times are in 
                addition to weekends, during the school week on Thursdays or Fridays, 
                over the summer, and after school. It was suggested to tie college 
                credit with the professional development workshops, however usually 
                it means 15 contact hours for every one credit. We will contact 
                Peggy Peel at Webster, UMSL and Maryville College to discuss arrangements 
                for credit.
Amy Shaw, Director of Education for KETC Channel 
                9, gave a presentation. She went through he history of KETC and 
                the new changes being made for K-12 education. Their program, 
                Living St. Louis has very high ratings and is on 3 nights a week 
                telling stories of great education in St. Louis schools at 7:00. 
                They are looking for additional story ideas. Channel 9 is the 
                highest rated public TV station. Six million viewers use “Ready 
                to Learn Service” for Early Childhood. KETC has made a commitment 
                to education to go Beyond Broadcast, with workshops for Parents, 
                Educators, Caregivers and Children, Community College Workshops, 
                library reading programs etc. 
                She also introduced KETC’S Digital Classroom, which is a 
                service offering a searchable library of video segments (20,000) 
                and programs that are accessed instantaneously via desktop computers. 
                The hard drive that is installed on a districts local network 
                costs $1.00 per student and does not use bandwidth. Professional 
                development includes learning modules that are designed to help 
                educators integrate technology and instructional media that engages 
                students.
Announcements:
                The ShowMe Networks Conference is March 5, 2004. The Grant Orientation 
                meeting is March 18, 2004 and the next Advisory Meeting will be 
                in early May or Late April.
Each member received a current roster of members. Corrections 
                were made and the new roster is available in Microsoft Word format. 
                Two new members, Randy Grissom, of Pattonville School District 
                and Carol Haukap of Lutheran Schools introduced themselves. The 
                video, “Show-Me How” was shown. Comments were very 
                positive, including the professionalism of the production.
The meeting was adjourned at 5:00 p.m.

HEC and CSD are producing a program “ Behind the Minds” 
                highlighting the positive happenings in schools around St. Louis. 
                Schools are encouraged to notify them if they know of any activity 
                or project that may be of interest.
Chris Klein distributed information from a vendor, SAFARI Technologies. 
                It provides content from 15 distributors, including United Streaming. 
                With Pathyway Suite, users can control their system via a Web 
                based System Server. This gives teachers a cross platform to search 
                for videos they need. They can also put their own video up. Helen 
                Petropoulos is also using a server at Visitation Academy where 
                all the students this year received laptops. Theirs is the Axonix 
                SuperView appliance. There are several options for streaming content. 
                Chalkwaves which also has a video collection was discussed.
The next meeting is scheduled for February 11, 2004.
Dr. Troester reported on the DVD-VCR combo program. 
                All schools and principals received a letter requesting they reply 
                if they are interested in receiving one. There has been a great 
                response from public schools. The deadline has been extended to 
                Feb. 18th. When the equipment arrives, there will be several distribution 
                centers set up and “how to” instructions will also 
                be given at that time.
Long range plans for serving the schools include, 
                Grants, Workshops, TV’s, VCR/DVD units, programs like “Behind 
                the Minds”, the Higher Education Channel. 
                Members of the Advisory Council are encouraged to suggest any 
                needs they would like to see CableTEC fulfill in the future.
The Grant Program for 2004-2005 will begin with 
                the orientation meeting to be held on March 18, where guidelines 
                and applications will be distributed. The General Grant and the 
                Continuation grants will be offered again and the topic for the 
                Topic Specific grant is yet to be determined. Suggestions offered 
                included; World’s Fair in St. Louis 1904-2004, Making DVD’s, 
                Copyright information, Multimedia Software, The Election Process, 
                Thematic Categories like Imagine This, Digital Story Telling, 
                or Cultural Heritage topics and Mathematics Related topics. The 
                final decision will be posted on the Website.
Education Advisory Members names will be posted on the “ShowMeCable" 
                Web site.
Buzz Brown announced that Microsoft's Fresh Start program is 
                now making it available for schools k-12 to document that their 
                donated computers are properly licensed. They can find instructions 
                at this website: http://www.microsoft.com/education/?ID=FreshStart
The 4th ShowMe Networks Conference is to be held 
                on March 5th, 2004. Members were reminded to register themselves 
                and 2 educators from each of their district schools. Online registration 
                is working well with approximately 150 registered so far. Breakout 
                sessions will include applicants from the Call for Presenters” 
                form that was sent out. Cable Networks will attend to present 
                as well as KETC and Taffy Patton will be the Keynote speaker.
The meeting for the Advisory Council was held 
                in the Conference room at University City Administration Building. 
                Those in attendance were: Dr. Dan Bain, Buzz Brown, Judy Davis-Edwards, 
                Randy Grissom, Carol Haukap, Karen Hurst, Jo Ann Mattson, Diane 
                Peterson, Dr. Kathie Pontikes, Dr. Roy Tamashiro, Donna Unterreiner, 
                Pat Ward, Karol Walters, Marlene Sachs and Dr. Jerry Troester 
                and guest, Amy Shaw from KETC.
The pilot program for the VCR/DVD distribution is going well. 
                Pattonville and Maplewood-Richmond Heights are using the DVD’s 
                at the head-in, however they need a monitor there to view the 
                DVD’s functions and to control its play.