
Cynthia Voigt first married in September 1964. She 
divorced in 1972. In August 1974, she married Walter Voigt, a teacher. She has 
two children, Jessica and Peter. She also had a dog named Rosie. Family life has 
influenced Cynthia because she has less time to write. Cynthia Voigt and her 
family have lived in Annapolis, Maryland, New Mexico, and they currently live in 
Deer Isle, Maine. She says that she lived in Annapolis because it is both rural 
and urban; it has a southwestern sky, it has mountains and water, and it has an 
"everyman-kind-of state."
Awards
Qoutes


A Solitary Blue

Jeff's mother, who deserted the family years before, reenters his life and 
widens the gap between Jeff and his father, a gap that only truth, love, and 
friendship can heal.
To Top

Bad Girls
to view parts of the book.
Review 
of Jackaroo by Jim Garrison
Izzy--Willy, Nilly

A car accident causes fifteen-year-old Izzy to lose one leg and 
face the need to start building a new life as an amputee.


Cynthia Voigt
Where her ideas come from

Voigt first decided to become a writer when she was in high 
school because she liked books. When she was teaching, she decided to write 
books for young adults. (Junior Discovering Authors) She wrote short stories and 
poetry in high school and college. Voigt started writing Building Blocks 
first, but Homecoming was the first book that she finished and published. 
It was published in 1981 by Atheneum. (Junior Discovering Authors) Since then, 
Cynthia Voigt has written six other books about the Tillermans.
“I like this book very 
much; it's strong (it's Voigt) and honest and biting and possible. She 
gives more emotional detail than has been usual: in the first pages of Bad 
Girls we are shown in third-person action how particular Margalo is and how 
slapdash Mikey, instead of sensing their personalities through their dialogue, 
as has been more typical. In fact the style reminded me strongly of E.L. 
Konigsburg (which is a compliment).”
Jackaroo


To Top

Building Blocks

Twelve-year-old Brann comes to understand his father's defeatism 
and aloofness when, after falling asleep one day in the fortress of building 
blocks in the basement, he awakes to meet his own father as a child.
To Top
Come a Stranger

Mina's deep love for a minister drives her to seek a way to give him an 
unforgettable remembrance, restoration of his faith.




Orfe

In a story derived from ancient Greek myth, Enny recounts the story of her best 
friend, Orfe, a talented artist known for the beauty of her music; Orfe's 
romance with Yuri, a recovering drug addict; and Orfe's doomed struggle to save 
Yuri--and herself.

Bibliography
Jackeroo

When hard times among the People revive the old stories of the hero Jackaroo, an 
innkeeper's daughter follows her own quest to unlock the secret reality behind 
the legend.
April 1, 2004

Caldwell Barnard
Voigt's books have been published by a 
number of different publishing houses. You can find her latest works at
Simon & Schuster
Homecoming 
Abandoned by their mother, four children begin a search for a home and an 
identity.
Dicey's Song

A young girl struggles to cope with her mother's mental illness and hold her 
troubled family together as they begin a new life with their grandmother in 
Chesapeake Bay country.

Cynthia Voigt Is a Newbery Award winning author. Her gift for writing Young 
Adult literature has made her a wonderful asset to the world as a writer. Her 
books will intrigue you and inspire you. 

Check one out today
Books by Cynthia Voigt
To Top

The Callender Papers

In nineteenth-century Massachusetts, orphan Jean, employed to sort out the 
family papers of a reclusive artist, becomes curious about the mysterious, 
long-ago death of his wife and the subsequent disappearance of their young 
child.
Voigt was born on 
February 25, 1942 in Boston, Massachusetts as Cynthia Irving. In her family were 
her mother, Elise Keeney, and her father Frederick C, Irving who was a corporate 
executive. She was the second child of four and grew up in southern Connecticut. 
Voigt went to Smith College where she got a bachelor's degree. She did graduate 
work at St. Michael's College (Junior Discovering Authors) and later got a 
teacher's certification at Christian Brothers College. Voigt held a few jobs in 
her life. She worked for an advertising agency. She has also been a secretary, 
and she was a high school English teacher in Glen Burnie and Annapolis, 
Maryland. She was the English department chair from 1971 to 1979 and now she is 
an author. Cynthia Voigt likes to read, eat well, play tennis, and see movies. 
She also likes "hanging around with our children and considering the weather."
"Cynthia Voigt is a fantastic writer. I loved this book. I read it over and 
over. I adored Gwyn, I wanted to be her, brave and mysterious and able to pass 
as a man. I loved the magic of the tale, and the setting, the time and place. 
Lords and outlaws, gold coins and daggers, funeral pyres and spring fairs. 
Journeys through the snow, little huts in the woods, hot stew bubbling away... I 
love the idea that there is some truth in any story. Jackaroo rides, even 
in our world."
This Page was created by
Click on the photo of a book and type in the title at
www.amazon.com