
Cynthia Voigt
By the time of her divorce from her first husband, Voigt had settled in Annapolis, Maryland and eventually took a job at the Key School there. Though she had not written much during her first marriage, her literary interests were rekindled at the Key School. As she once explained, "I was assigned to teach English in second, fifth and seventh grades. The second graders were a kick and a half. I assigned book reports to my fifth graders. I would go to the library and starting with the letter 'A' peruse books at the fifth, sixth, and seventh-grade age level. If a book looked interesting, I checked it out. I once went home with thirty books! It was then that I realized one could tell stories which had the shape of real books--novels--for kids the age of my students.
Voigt's "Bad Girls" series chronicles the adventures of "bad girls" Mikey and Margalo from fifth to seventh grade. Booklist critic Hazel Rochman deemed the debut volume, Bad Girls, a "fast-talking classroom comedy that mocks traditional gender roles." Its sequels, including Bad, Badder, Baddest, It's Not Easy Being Bad, and Bad Girls in Love, earned similar enthusiastic reviews for their wit and intelligence.
In Izzy, Willy-Nilly, Voigt depicts the trauma faced by an active teenager whose leg is amputated after a car accident. Through this incident, and with the help of Roseamunde, an awkward girl who embodies all that Izzy did not before her accident, Voigt's protagonist finds resources and wisdom within herself that she might otherwise never have known. Though some critics complained about the book's length and some unrealistic elements in the plot, Patty Campbell of Wilson Library Bulletin dubbed Izzy, Willy-Nilly the "best young adult novel of the season, and perhaps of the year."
In 1964, she moved with her first husband to Santa Fe, New Mexico; though she had never planned to become a teacher, this was the work that was available and, as she once noted, "the minute I walked into a classroom, I loved it."
"There weren't any so-called 'young adult' books when I was growing up.  I started to read adult books, with my mother making sure what I had chosen was not 'too adult.' I read Tolstoy, Shakespeare, Camus, and many classics."
Voigt was born in Boston, Massachusetts, the second of her parents' five children. Most of her childhood was spent in small-town southern Connecticut. It was in this atmosphere that Voigt began to develop an interest in books. She once recalled: "My grandmother lived in northern Connecticut, in a house three stories high; its corridors lined with bookcases." Voigt noted that she had already become an avid reader, with books such as "Nancy Drew, Cherry Ames, The Black Stallion, and the Terhune book(s)," when one day at her grandmother's house she "pulled The Secret Garden off one of her shelves and read it. "This was the first book I found entirely for myself, and I cherished it."
By the time Voigt began high school, she had set her sights on a career as a writer. She began writing short stories and poetry, and while at Smith College, she enrolled in creative writing courses. After graduation from Smith College, Voigt moved to New York City where she worked for the J. Walter Thompson advertising agency.