
Dicey's Song
LIFE OR SOMETHING LIKE IT
Lucy the Giant
PLAY
Listen
Zak Gibbs' life is a total snore until he stumbles on one of his dad's cool inventions--a high-tech watch that can enter hypertime, a sped-up version of reality. When Zak wears the watch, time seems to freeze instantly because Zak's molecules are moving so fast. It's all fun and games until he and his buds realize they're not alone in this super human universe. Watch out!
See
COPYRIGHT 2002 Monarch Avalon, Inc.
COPYRIGHT 2002 Gale Group
Play
At 15, Lil' J might be a little full of himself with songs that are total tributes to him, like "Lil' J," "Lil' J Took Your Girl" and "All About J." We lost count, but his name is chanted at least 106 times on just the first two tracks alone. But, hey, the guy could turn out to be a major playa on the rap scene. He really won us over with his "Parents Don't Understand."
BUBBLE YUM
Based on the Marvel comic strip, a genetically enhanced spider at a science demo bites Peter Parker (Tobey Maguire). Suddenly, he has spider speed and crime-fighting strength. Watch as Spidey catches arachnophobic evil-doers--and Kirsten Dunst--in his web.
BRITNEY'S DANCE BEAT
SPIDER-MAN
Blonde bombshell Lanie Kerrigan has an ideal life---a hot BF, nice crib and high-flying career--until a homeless man tells her she will die in a week. Shocked, she changes her 'tude and finds what's truly important in life.
CLOCKSTOPPERS
by Cynthia Voigt Simon Pulse, $5.99
STAR WARS: EPISODE II ATTACK OF THE CLONES
If you read Cynthia Voigt's Homecoming, don't miss her second book Dicey's Song. Dicey Tillerman, barely a teen, is the oldest sister of three. With no parents to speak of, Dicey has been in charge of the Tillerman clan. That is, until their Gram fulfills their dream and gives the kids a home at her old farm. However, Dicey must confront who she really is once Gram steps in and takes over.
All About J
Ten years has passed since The Phantom Menace, and Anakin Skywalker is Obi-Wan Kenobi's apprentice. A forbidden romance blossoms between Skywalker and Sen. Padme Amidala that will ultimately affect the fate of the Republic. Don't miss the cameo by 'NSync.
Build a shopping mecca in Take Two Interactive's Mall Tycoon, a PC game that puts you in charge of building and running a shopping mall from the ground up. Want high-class fashion boutiques? Just drop 'em in. An indoor roller coaster? You're the boss. Just make sure you leave room beside your multiplex for parking. And it's not all shopping heaven in your dream mall--make sure your customers are happy spenders, while being on the lookout for shoplifters, troublemakers and mallrats. Hey, and you thought you were the mallrat!
Meet Lucy--she's 15 and over six feet tall. She can't go anywhere without being teased or stared at. Doesn't help that her mom took off and left her with a drunk dad. But Lucy finds herself in the right place at the right time and catches the break she needs. Mistaken for being older, Lucy makes her way onto a crabbing boat where she's challenged by the unforgiving sea.
MALL TYCOON
If you hit Aaron Carter's tour last summer, maybe you caught these four fab girls from Sweden who opened for him. Most of the group's song titles are such baby tee Slogans--"Boys Lie," "Cinderella," "Disco Hippie." And that about sums up the sound, too. It's goodie gumdrop, glitter girl, princess pop. Did somebody say, "Slumber party!"?
by Sherri Smith Delacorate, $15.95
Lil' J
Choose a character and audition to be one of Britney Spears' backup dancers in Britney's Dance Beat for PlayStation 2, Game Boy Advance or PC. Get your groove on to hits like "Overprotected" and "Oops...I Did It Again." The better you dance, the more backstage passes you collect for access to behind-the-scenes photos or video clips. The Game Boy Advance version lets you collect Britney pics for your tour photo album, and the PS2 edition features concert footage for which you control the camera. Regardless of the platform you choose, this game rocks!