
On the train-ride south, she can't decide  how to explain her leaving camp.  When she is met at the train station by the summer minister, Tamer Shipp (also in Voigt's novel) 
, Mina and the story reach a turning point.  Mina begins to figure out what it means to her to be African American.  With the help and guidance of summers with Mr. Shipp and the kindness and caring of her own mother, Mina begins t
o take shape as her own person.  She defends her right to learn about her history, not just what the teacher chooses to tell her.  Mina dedicates herself to learning and becomes a straight-A student.  She picks up a new sport, tennis and discovers that she 
really wasn't as ungraceful as her ballet instructor told her years before.  Mina also develops a friendship with Dicey Tillerman (also in Voigt's novels: 
Dicey's Song, Homecoming and A Solitary Blue), the new girl in town.  It is through this friendship that Mina begins to trust whites again after the times at the summer camp and trust herself in unfamiliar situations.

The first summer, Mina hardly realized that she was the only African American child there but the distinction is more pronounced when she returns for the second summer.  That distinction is more painful too when the girls she was friends with last summer a
re roommates and Mina is placed in a room by herself.  Since she had begun to develop into a young woman over the school year, Mina's looks are no longer what would be called classical in the ballet sense.   Halfway through the camp, her much-admired dance 
instructor points out the differences between Mina and the other girls in a cruel, harsh way.  This forced Mina to go home before camp was completed.

I would recommend this book to any lover of Cynthia Voigt's work or to any independent thinking student in the middle school and 9th grade levels.  This book is another of  Voigt's well-crafted novels built around well-balanced characters set on the easter
n shore of Maryland.  Having read many of Voigt's other novels over 10 years ago, I felt as if I were meeting up with old friends.  It actually made me downright giddy to see the familiar characters again.
"Feeling love," Mina thought," was easy; it was finding the ways to give it that was hard." (p190)  So says Wilhemina Smiths: ballerina, tennis player, student, pubescent youth, musician, preacher's daughter, lover of people, and African American.  In the be
ginning of the novel, Mina Smiths receives her admittance of scholarship status to a premier ballet camp in Connecticut for the summer.  Although she is only 10 years old, her parents reluctantly allow her to go, leaving the poor, rural life behind for the 
"more sophisticated" world of classical ballet taught at an Ivy League College.  When she returns to her hometown, her  best friend, Kat Beaulieu, says that she is uppity and snobbish and few of her old friends want to play with her.  Even her father is aga
inst her listening to the classical music she has developed a taste for over the summer.  But Mina is undaunted, she babysits and raises money any way she can and practices her dance all winter to be prepared to go to ballet camp next summer.