
RB: What happened to them?
PC: It’s not a big field.
RB: You didn’t leave them on your hard drive? Or go back 
              to cannibalize what you had written?
Posted: 
              September 29, 2005
              © 2005 Robert Birnbaum
              Images by Red Diaz/Duende Publishing
Print this 
              interview
PC: It wasn’t. He was going to go into a program at preschool 
              where there were six kids and three instructors and assistants to 
              a classroom with thirty-two kids and one teacher not trained in 
              special ed. And we went to the meeting and we asked, “What 
              if he runs? Sometimes he just bolts from a room.” You have 
              to always be on top of things with him. “Who’s going 
              to be watching him?” When we brought up the safety issue, 
              that he might run and get hurt, they said, “He might do that?” 
              “Have you ever seen an autistic kid? That’s what they 
              do.”
RB: Why do you think that is? Do you sense that the Midwest is 
              looked down upon, and why?
PC: Fortunately it was only about one. After about a year I realized—what 
              struck me, too—I knew a bunch of people in my English classes 
              that were not doing well [laughs] and they were performing in English 
              the way I was in my science courses. I realized I’m in the 
              wrong thing—my talent is over here, working with language. 
              And my parents were not real keen on that initially. They were very 
              oriented toward me going into some high-paying profession of some 
              kind.
RB: These were professional educators?
PC: And yet its schools are fantastic.
RB: That would be the infuriating part of it. It doesn’t 
              allow people to ignore it—someone submits a book to fifty-seven 
              publishers and the fifty-sixth takes it. And it goes on to win awards. 
              When you know that happens, it stays with you.
PC: Yeah. [laughs] Both of them.
PC: She’s his daughter, and when I was trying to find his 
              clinic in Vienna, I emailed her and she gave me directions to where 
              it had been.
RB: What, after three years of suffering?
PC: [laughs] Yeah.
RB: And the coasts dominate the culture because?
PC: They have an outsized influence on the media because that’s 
              where the media emanates from.
RB: It requires a very conscious effort to look past the stuff 
              that is easily available. I have been very much rewarded by picking 
              up books and music and watching movies that I know nothing about 
              or that have not been gate-kept. That of course tempts one to think 
              about the business when you see how serendipitously some work gets 
              attention and other work doesn’t.
PC: —of other eras too?
RB: Doesn’t university life start to contract 
              around shared interests and clichés?
Robert Birnbaum: What did you want to be when 
              you were growing up—when you were younger what was your answer 
              to that question?
RB: You acknowledged Dr. 
              Maria Asperger. Is she related to the man who created that diagnosis?
PC: [laughs] That happens a lot. I don’t take it personally. 
              He’s got a lot of people emailing him. I thought, “Whatever.” 
              And then eight months later, out of the blue, there’s an email 
              from him. “Yeah, that sounds like a great idea.” [laughs]
PC: I did a piece for The Believer called “Read 
              the Book that you are Reading.” There were comments where 
              they said, “He’s saying ‘ignore the writer, focus 
              on the writing.’” That wasn’t what I was trying 
              to get at, although I probably didn’t express it real well 
              at the time. It is helpful to know the circumstance in which a book 
              was written and to know about the writer—as a historian it 
              would be pretty hypocritical of me to say otherwise, because that’s 
              what I spend my time doing; and yet it serves as a buttress to understanding 
              the work, but it’s not a substitute for engaging in the work. 
              That’s where I run into problems—I spend a lot of time 
              reading newspapers and blogs and stuff like that, and there is, 
              of course, a lot of gossip there—I try not to let it occupy 
              much of my mind. I know most the time, when people are talking about 
              an author, they have not met the person. They have met the work, 
              not the person, so they can’t make a very good call on the 
              person. That doesn’t preclude conversation—because I 
              haven’t met George Bush I can’t say anything about him. 
              But when I see people talking about an author in that way and criticizing 
              or lauding them for things other than the work itself, I take it 
              with a grain of salt.
RB: He might have said “grave robber.”
PC: It really does. [both laugh] At that point my dad was finally, 
              “Well, I guess you’re working in English now, aren’t 
              you?” [laughs] The weird thing was that I had already written 
              three books by the time I decided to become an English major. In 
              retrospect it seems a blindingly obvious move for me to make. And 
              yet—
PC: Yeah, I did terrible at stuff like that.
RB: Meaning you get royalties?
PC: It was weird, my parents when they bought that house discovered 
              a cavity in the wall that turned out to be a water tank, and so 
              they ripped it out and that became my room. I basically lived in 
              a part of the house that hadn’t even existed for all purposes. 
              There are certain parts of the house I remember distinctly and other 
              parts are a total blank.
PC: I say that like I’m being mean, but I grew up in small 
              town, and it’s just one of those kinds of places. You get 
              outside of town and there are just fields and fields and fields. 
              If you are coming from San Francisco or New York and you see that, 
              you just go: what do people do there?
PC: It’s easier to talk about people than about writing.
PC: That’s the thing about McSweeney’s. I 
              don’t know if McSweeney’s could have happened 
              fifteen or twenty years ago. It has an almost defining reliance 
              on email. I didn’t even meet Dave for the first two years 
              that I worked with him. I published a whole bunch of pieces and 
              had already received my book contract. All this stuff happened before 
              I actually met him in person—it was all by email. And I think 
              it’s true for a lot of the other writers too.
Towards the end of a congenial chat, which took place at promontory 
              at Mt. Auburn Cemetery in Cambridge, MA, we touched on the Reading 
              at Risk report, here’s Collins’s conclusion from 
              a piece he wrote for the Village 
              Voice:
RB: Not teaching?
PC: Yeah. Technically that was my first book. It was called Community 
              Writing. It came out a month or two before Banvard’s 
              Folly. Nobody really knows about it—it’s a textbook 
              and nobody reads it voluntarily. [laughs]
RB: Really young being?
RB: Did you discover things while you inhabited that house?
RB: Yes, but I also find it hard to separate the people from their 
              work
RB: Did you say hello to Rosie?
PC: I remember in tenth grade I decided for no particularly good 
              reason that I was going to write a book. I remember this really 
              distinctly. It was over the Christmas break.
PC: No. The funny thing is, I finished the book—a composition 
              textbook I was writing—and took it to my committee, and they 
              came back and said it was great but we also want you to use it in 
              classrooms for a year or two and record the results. And when they 
              came back to me with that—it was the same week I got my contract 
              for Banvard’s Folly—and I just went, ”Screw 
              you people,” and dropped out of grad school [both laugh]. 
              “I’m an author now!”
RB: That seems to be implied by your efforts with the Collins Library—even 
              serious readers will look at literary history, look at the nineteenth 
              century, and think there are perhaps twelve or fifteen writers.
RB: Did you have animals when you were growing up?
Tape ends
PC: Kevin [Smokler] wrote the introduction for the book and the 
              jacket copy was after the NEA. He initially approached me about 
              the book, in 2003, and I wrote that piece three months before the 
              NEA report was even a gleam in anyone’s eyes, other than the 
              NEA. I think that’s why a number of pieces in the book don’t 
              seem connected. But it’s better for it. My wife made the comment 
              that she always noticed when she was in art school, when there was 
              a themed show for art, the more the artists stuck to the theme, 
              the worse the show. [both laugh] I really had that in mind, and 
              Kevin had mentioned the general idea behind the anthology; I thought 
              I would approach it in the loosest fitting manner possible.
RB: What do you think of the pronouncement that no great work goes 
              undiscovered? Have you heard that said?
RB: What was your reference point?
RB: Really?
PC: It was bad. It was in late 2001. Right after Banvard’s 
              Folly had come out, and the stuff from that had just died down 
              and now my agent and publisher don’t want anything to do with 
              me. I’m thinking, “My career is over. [laughs] My career 
              has lasted four months and it’s over.” The infuriating 
              thing was that I would look at Sixpence House and think, 
              “I know that this a big jump forward for me.” So I went 
              to a new agent. And once she got it there were three publishers 
              bidding on it within a couple of months. It was almost like my previous 
              agent and publisher—
RB: That seems odd.
He is also the author of Banvard's Folly, Sixpence 
              House, Not Even Wrong: Adventures in Autism, a memoir 
              on raising his young autistic son, and Community Writing. 
              The Trouble with Tom: The Strange Afterlife and Times of Thomas 
              Paine is his latest effort. His work has also appeared in New 
              Scientist, Cabinet, the Village Voice and 
              Bookmark Now: Writing in Unreaderly Times [“121 Years 
              of Solitude”] an anthology edited by Kevin Smokler. Paul Collins 
              lives in Iowa City, Iowa, with his wife and son.
PC: Other than just the fact that’s what I think as a parent. 
              He’ll be reading it some day. I would if I knew someone had 
              written a book about me as a kid. And I want him to know that.
RB: When I was reading the Tom Paine book, this guy who walked—
PC: The library at the University of Oregon is near a graveyard—it’s 
              like the pioneer cemetery. You have to walk through it to get to 
              the library, and when you are sitting in the library it is overlooking 
              the cemetery. And so I’d get these old books and magazines 
              at random and start reading them. And I’d find interesting 
              things and photocopy them. The challenge was—each evening 
              when I was writing the next couple of pages of the book—to 
              somehow work in something I’d found in one of those old sources 
              that day, into the narrative. It was great because it meant that 
              my reader could not possibly know the next thing I was going to 
              talk about because I did not know from day to day what I was going 
              to be writing about. It was a weird kind of formal experiment, but 
              it was a way to deliberately frustrate my own tendency to fall into 
              a pat narrative.
RB: When I think about it, what bad things has Dave Eggers and 
              or the coterie done other than perhaps suggest there is an exclusivity 
              about McSweeney’s?
RB: Why are you living in Iowa?
RB: Odd that it has resulted—something about McSweeney’s 
              has sparked an anti-McSweeney’s backlash.
PC: I don’t know—part of it is. I cannot even imagine 
              the volume of email he gets.
RB: I do think it’s generational. I never met (or talked 
              on the phone to) my poker playing, Zen colleague Matt 
              Borondy for the first three years we worked together. There 
              was something charming and pure—[something] direct about that.
RB: And how would we know if they didn’t? You mentioned “dead 
              ends” somewhere. Do the last three books you have done represent 
              a rising to the top from many things that you have pursued that 
              turned out to be dead ends? When you started the Tom Paine book, 
              did you know you were going to follow his story all the way through—did 
              you even start with Tom Paine?
PC: A lot of the things that interested me were not necessarily 
              the things that people think about with Kerouac—
PC: He is.
RB: I’m glad you said that—so I didn’t have to—
PC: It’s one of those weird things. People weren’t 
              being diagnosed with any kind of autism spectrum disorder—people 
              who had it.
Author 
              of The Trouble with Tom converses with Robert Birnbaum
PC: My dad’s from Liverpool and my mom’s from outside 
              Reading. And they both grew up quite poor. The classic thing: they 
              worked themselves to death and they have done well for themselves. 
              And here one of their kids announces basically, “I’m 
              going to go be poor.” [both laugh] So they weren’t happy 
              about that, and I don’t think they gave up the hope that I 
              was going to go to law school or some thing. They didn’t give 
              up until I got my Master’s in English. [both laugh]
PC: John Stewart, Walking Stewart. I couldn’t believe it 
              when I found his story. [laughs]
RB: Was it required?
RB: Hold on, now. In tenth grade, being fourteen or fifteen, your 
              sense of choosing a vocation included the [conscious] necessity 
              to make money?
PC: The textbook was published.
PC: There is that “greatest hits” tendency of history. 
              Two hundred or three hundred years from now when someone mentions 
              twentieth-century music, people will probably go, “Oh yeah, 
              Beatles.” And that will be it. [laughs] There is this enormous 
              body of work and they just say, “Oh yeah, Beatles.”
PC: Constantly.
PC: When I was writing the bibliography or Further Reading essay 
              at the end of Banvard’s Folly. And I was writing 
              about George 
              Psalmanazar, an imposter from the early 1700s who went around 
              claiming to be Taiwanese. He was probably French. After he died—he 
              lived to be very old—they found a memoir locked in his desk 
              with a note that said “to be published after I die.” 
              His memoirs came out in 1763, and what I noticed when I was compiling 
              this bibliography here was an edition in 1763, and a pirated edition 
              in 1764, and then that’s it. And Psalmanazar, although not 
              known to the general public, is fairly famous among historians of 
              hoaxes and Asiatic studies and things like that.
PC: Yeah.
PC: Put it this way: He’s well enough known that it was shocking 
              that he has been out of print for over two hundred years. I found 
              that bizarre—that at least some academic press or some small 
              press or someone hadn’t put it out. I went, ”Somebody 
              should put this out. I can’t believe someone hasn’t 
              done it. And then I said, “Hey, McSweeney’s 
              should put it out. McSweeney’s can do anything.” 
              So I emailed Dave [Eggers] and I just suggested—
RB: Not to mention that NEA report strikes me as demonstrably silly, 
              almost not worth dignifying—I characterize a certain mentality 
              as sophomoric—as when as an undergraduate we would regularly 
              gather in the Student Union or such and decry the downfall of civilization 
              because of this or that. [Dana] Gioia’s study seemed to be 
              a normal, almost cyclical fear-mongering.
PC: Exactly. Maybe [the] more that other writers did that, the 
              less the thing would cohere necessarily, but maybe the better it 
              would be for the reader. To the extent that the essays go in a bunch 
              of different directions, people will be able to read that anthology 
              in five years and get something out of it, whereas if it was really 
              about the NEA report, it would have the shelf life of milk.
RB: Are your parents immigrants?
RB: The history of hoaxes?
PC: [chuckle] Right.
RB: Showing as opposed to saying, things like that?
RB: It’s cold in Iowa City.
RB: If there is a subtext to what you write is it—and perhaps 
              my expression of this is banal . . . but that there are millions 
              of stories?
PC: No that was in Portland.
RB: Mercilessly.
PC: No, I didn’t even know that. [laughs] And that happens 
              with biographers: two biographies on the same person come out within 
              a month of each other, so of course they get compared and reviewed 
              and someone who has just spent years researching a topic—their 
              work is instantly diminished. [It’s] one thing I try to do 
              in creating my books, almost a kind of insurance; there is no way 
              they are reproducible because they are so chaotic. Even if someone 
              else wrote a book about Tom Paine’s bones, it would not even 
              remotely resemble what I wrote.
RB: I was amused that unlike the shock of the Russian launching 
              of Sputnik, there was no reaction, or call to action, other than 
              ire that came from a segment of literati.
PC: [laughs]
Paul Collins is founder and editor of the Collins 
              Library imprint at 
              McSweeney's, a project dedicated to the reprinting of unusual, out-of-print 
              literary works, which has published English as She is Spoke 
              by Jose da Fonseca and Pedro Carolino, To Lady into Fox 
              by David Garnett and Ruhleben and Back by Geoffrey Pyke.
RB: Is that a big field?
Robert Birnbaum, a bookish journalist, was born in Germany, grew up in Chicago, lived for too many years in Boston.  He is editor-at-large at Identitytheory.com and something or other at The Morning News. He lives in New Hampshire with blonde Labrador, Rosie. Thanks for asking.


              Note: 

              Featured author in November 2000

              E-mail: duendepublishing@gmail.com

              Writing interests: Interviews, Photography
              Author interviews: Dorothy 
              Allison, Steve 
              Almond, Julia Alvarez, Jonathan Ames, Martin 
              Amis, Roger 
              Angell, Blake Bailey, Nicholson 
              Baker, Todd 
              Balf,  Russell Banks, Julian 
              Barnes, Andrea 
              Barrett, Alex 
              Beam, Louis 
              Begley, Thomas Beller, Nathaniel
              Bellows, Elizabeth Benedict, Jill 
              Bialosky, Sven 
              Birkerts, Amy 
              Bloom, Amy 
              Bloom 2002, Alain 
              de Botton, TC 
              Boyle, Arthur Bradford, Courtney Angela Brkic, 
              Frederick 
              Busch, Frederick Busch (2005), Ethan Canin, 
              Stephen 
              Carter, Ben 
              Cavell, Iris 
              Chang, Alston 
              Chase, Sandra 
              Cisneros, Marcelle 
              Clements, Andrei Codrescu, Paul Collins, Michael 
              Connelly, Richard 
              Conniff, Frank 
              Conroy, Mark 
              Costello, Elizabeth 
              Cox, Jim Crace, Nicholas 
              Dawidoff, Andre 
              Dubus III, John 
              Dufresne, Geoff 
              Dyer, Tony Earley, Barbara 
              Ehrenreich, Gretel Ehrlich,   Stephen
              Elliott, 
              James 
              Ellroy, Joseph 
              Epstein, Marc Estrin, Percival 
              Everett, Tibor Fischer, Alice Flaherty, Maria 
              Flook, Nick Flynn, Jonathan 
              Safran Foer, Richard 
              Ford, Richard 
              Ford (2007), Nick 
              Fowler, Tom 
              Franklin, Alan 
              Furst, Alan 
              Furst 2002, Josh 
              Furst, Eduardo
              Galeano,  Tim 
              Gautreaux, Anthony 
              Giardina, Barry 
              Gifford, Dagoberto Gilb,   John Gimlette, James 
              Gleick, Francisco Goldman,  Adam 
              Gopnik, Alma Guillermoprieto, Allan Gurganus, 
              Barbara 
              Haber, David 
              Hadju, Brian 
              Hall, Donald Hall 
              Hall, Jake 
              Halpern, Kent Haruf, Ethan 
              Hawke, Patricia 
              Henley, Amanda 
              Hesser, Christopher Hitchens 
              #1, Christopher 
              Hitchens #2, Eva Hoffman, Janette 
              Turner Hospital, Gabe 
              Hudson, Siri 
              Hustvedt, Karl 
              Iagnemma, Elizabeth 
              Inness-Brown, Edward 
              Jones, Ben Katchor, Nora 
              Okja Keller, Arthur 
              Kempton, Jason 
              Kersten, Chip Kidd, 
              Chip 
              Kidd #2, Chip Kidd (2006), Anthony 
              Lane, Erik 
              Larson, James Lasdun, Don 
              Lee, Don Lee #2,  Annette 
              Lemieux, Michael 
              Lesy, Michael 
              Lewis (2006), Michael 
              Lewis (2003), Alan 
              Lightman, Alan 
              Lightman 2003, David 
              Liss, Vyvyane Loh,  Paul Lussier, Richard Marinick,
              Ruben Martinez, Daniel 
              Mason, Colum 
              McCann, Thomas 
              McGuane, Jenny 
              & Martha McPhee, Abelardo 
              Morell, Azar Nafisi, Adam Nicolson,  Thisbe Nissen, 
              Sherwin 
              Nuland, Tim 
              O'Brien, Joseph 
              O'Connor, Susan 
              Orlean (2001), Susan 
              Orlean (2006), Ann 
              Packer, ZZ 
              Packer, Tom 
              Paine, George 
              Pelecanos, Thomas 
              Perry, Arthur 
              Phillips, Neal 
              Pollack, Samantha 
              Power, Richard 
              Price, Alice Randall, Christopher 
              Rice, David 
              Rieff, Hazel 
              Rowley, Richard Russo #1, 
              Richard 
              Russo #2, George Saunders, John 
              Sedgwick, Will 
              Self, Saira 
              Shah, Jim Shepard,  David 
              Shields, Lionel 
              Shriver, Peter 
              Singer, Jane 
              Smiley, April 
              Smith, Ilan 
              Stavans, Robert 
              Stone, Darin 
              Strauss, Manil 
              Suri, Graham 
              Swift, Donna 
              Tartt, David 
              Thomson, Nick 
              Tosches, Brady 
              Udall, Vendela 
              Vida, Sarah 
              Vowell, Sarah 
              Vowell (2005), Barbara Wallraff, Kristin 
              Waterfield Duisberg, Brad 
              Watson, W.D. Wetherell, 
              Mark 
              Winegardner, William Wright, Howard 
              Zinn (2001), 
              Howard 
              Zinn (2003)

              Author portraits: John 

              Sayles, Howard 

              Zinn, Robert 

              Stone, Ana 

              Castillo, John 

              Waters, Allen 

              Ginsberg, Carl 

              Hiaasen, Carlos 

              Fuentes, Barbara 

              Ehrenreich, Eduardo 

              Galeano, Isabel 

              Allende, Junot 

              Diaz, Joan 

              Didion, James 

              Ellroy, John 

              Edgar Wideman, Martin 

              Amis, Michael 

              Ondaatje, Richard 

              Price, Rigoberta 

              Menchu, Louis 

              de Bernieres, Studs 

              Terkel

              Photography: "I 

              am the Son of my Son"

              Journal: "a 

              reader's progress"
   Book Reviews: Book Rate
              Links: Review 
              of Cuba: A Traveler's Literary Companion at Hyde Park Review 
              of Books | The 
              Morning News - Robert Birnbaum | Birnbaum V. at TMN (More Birnbaum interviews)
PC: Yeah, pretty much. I was writing fiction until ’97. At 
              that point I had written five books, I guess.
PC: Oh yeah.
PC: Yeah for pre-vet there was a whole slew of science classes 
              I was supposed to be taking. And yet there were people next to me 
              in Lab who were not exactly breezing through it, but they were working 
              no harder and doing much better at it; and, at the same time I was 
              getting As in my English classes almost without even trying. All 
              my energy was being directed toward my science classes. It was like 
              a black hole of work. It finally hit me one day that I was in the 
              wrong major.
RB: 
              Did you know him at that time?
RB: As certain kind of crimes barely existed because they were 
              not or underreported. You wouldn’t want to claim there is 
              a progression of causal chain linking the books that you have written.
PC: I get that all the time just from reading old magazines.
RB: There is nowhere and there’s nowhere.
RB: Right. Me neither.
RB: My thought was he could readily have been his own book.
RB: Does he live in a sort of imminent present? All manner of strands 
              float around him and he just picks one without consciousness of 
              any real time?
PC: I didn’t say hello to her. That was very rude of me.
PC: I went to Wisconsin at Madison for a semester, in part because 
              they have a big veterinary program there. But it was too cold, so 
              I transferred to California, to Davis, because they also had a big 
              veterinary program. And I was a really mediocre student. I had to 
              work incredibly hard just to get a B in “O Chem.”
PC: Morgan’s school. He was about to go into kindergarten 
              and there had been these terrible budget cutbacks in Oregon—in 
              fact they were going to end the school year early last year. And 
              they shut down the special education classrooms; and said we are 
              going to “full inclusion”: we’re going to put 
              the kids in regular classrooms. And they tried to use the rhetoric 
              that it was a good thing.
RB: Like his relationship with his mother—
RB: So you’ve gotten over your aversion to cold
PC: Against penny postage.
RB: You have a kind of grasshopper mind—digressive and fascinated 
              by many things. And it’s contrary to the prevailing impulse 
              to tie up everything neatly and create an well-ordered world, which 
              doesn’t, in fact, exist.
PC: It happens over and over again. In this case it had only been 
              rejected by one place, but it was the place I thought was going 
              to take it. I had not written what they expected, and so they couldn’t 
              read it for what it actually was.
RB: I remember thinking that it’s only the work seemed like 
              such a limiting thing when I was engaged in a chat about naturalist 
              photographer Galen Rowell, 
              who traveled to some very inhospitable places to make his pictures. 
              That made it impossible for me to only think about the pictures 
              and not how they were made.
RB: Especially as he is of the generation that thinks nothing of 
              emailing on the slimmest pretext without forethought (or spell checking).
RB: I thought the NEA report was silly in the face of it. So you 
              have published a book on a Welsh village that seems to be one big 
              bookstore. And then a book on your son’s autism?
RB: Talking to Tom 
              Bissell, his take on it was that it is not like editors and 
              agents don’t want to make good choices and not do good work. 
              Somehow there are mistakes, or whatever you want to call them.
PC: Yeah, the foul-mouthed plumber comes over and wrecks our plumbing 
              and you can’t speak the language to him. Just all that kind 
              of crap. I just didn’t want to write one of those books. We 
              were living in Eugene, Oregon, at the time, and I would go to library 
              every day and just grab old magazines and books off the shelves.
RB: Well, you bothered to say it. In a book.
RB: Right.
PC: Basically it’s a memoir about Morgan’s autism—really 
              about the first year after he was diagnosed. And that is used as 
              framework for going into the history of it. For the two things to 
              act as foil to each other—his behavior helps illuminate some 
              of the historical figures. But, by the same token, the history gives 
              you a context for understanding his autism.
PC: [laughs] He said, “It’s an archeologist.” 
              That’s what I had them put on my tag and, of course, none 
              [of the second graders] knew what that was.
PC: I find that weird. I had no concept.
RB: Want to explain what the Collins Library is?
RB: Is this where you discovered Notes & Theories?
PC: Yeah, dogs mainly.
PC: They had one of those days when you had to come to school with 
              a tag saying what you were going to be when you grew up. I remember 
              asking my dad who were the people that dig up skulls? And I guess 
              the answer my dad could have given was “gravedigger.” 
              But he fortunately understood what I was asking.
PC: Second grade, actually.
PC: At that point I came away from it and said, “This is 
              unacceptable.” I couldn’t put him in that school. I 
              knew I wanted to live in a kind of college town—I need access 
              to a research library.
PC: I don’t really know, to be honest. I grew up in a really 
              old house, which might have something to do with it. Our house was 
              the oldest one, at least in the township. It dated from the 1720s 
              or ‘30s. It had been an inn on the road to Philadelphia. And 
              I think even as a little kid that idea fascinated me. All the doorways 
              in the house were really low. Everything felt old.
RB: It was a monolithic diagnosis?
RB: [laughs]
PC: A couple of them I threw out. [both laugh]
PC: Strangely enough, no. Part of the reason was 
              I was at two very large universities—at Madison and then at 
              Davis.
PC: I had not thought of that before, but there really wasn’t 
              anyone like that that in my life. There were writers who influenced 
              me a tremendous amount. In high school, when I wrote my first book, 
              I was flat out trying to copy Kurt Vonnegut—who I read for 
              the first time early in tenth grade. And he just floored me. I just 
              went, “I want to do this.” I felt compelled to be a 
              writer and actually think of doing that with my life. It was more 
              the example of other authors that had come before me. There wasn’t 
              anyone whispering in my ear, on the faculty or anything like that.
RB: I was unaware of that syndrome until I read Margot Livesey’s 
              short story in the New Yorker that was the first chapter 
              of Banishing Verona.
RB: Very sweet that you referred to Morgan in the acknowledgments 
              as the best greatest kid in the world.
PC: 
              Then it would actually have to offer up something to do. And it 
              really had neither.
RB: Are you including a book of poetry by Nick 
              Flynn that is about bees?
PC: It has the effect of telling people what they wanted or didn’t 
              want to hear. People who were inclined to not believe that report 
              just went, “Oh this report is flawed.” And for the croakers, 
              who think that things are going to hell in hand basket, they went, 
              “Oh look things are going to hell in a hand basket!” 
              Part of the problem was that if a report like that were going to 
              be useful, it would also have to be prescriptive. First of all it 
              would have to find an actual problem. Let’s say it did.
PC: To some extent. It was a bit rough. We got used to it and the 
              special ed. program is fantastic
RB: You read it. I didn’t. I prefer to sit in my limited, 
              hermetic world in which I note many people reading, and I am willing 
              to say that’s the world [as I know it]. And if it’s 
              not, what bad consequences follow?
PC: Of course. It is looked down upon because it is in the middle 
              of nowhere. [laughs]
RB: I thought that was the powerful part of your essay, reaching 
              back almost a hundred years or so, quoting diatribes against television 
              driving—
PC: That’s a common thing for people to indulge in. It’s 
              probably always been the case. It doesn’t surprise me at all—that’s 
              what people do.
RB: In the fly over zone.
PC: The longer I have been writing, the more hesitant I have become 
              about ascribing influences when I look at a writer—“Clearly 
              they are under the influence of so-and-so.” You can say they 
              resemble so-and-so, but as far as influences, its really hard to 
              tell. Literary movements are defined in retrospect. You might group 
              together people who wouldn’t necessarily see themselves as 
              related when it was actually happening. That’s true of motives 
              too. When you see a reviewer going, “Well, so-and-so is jumping 
              on this bandwagon,” you don’t know how long that writer 
              was working on his book. It might have been that when they’d 
              started there was no bandwagon.
PC: They diagnosed people with severe autism. People who had Asperger’s—who 
              maybe were functional but nonetheless had real problems—they 
              were just classified as odd. Or discipline problems or social misfits. 
              People didn’t relate it to autism—it seems silly—simply 
              because a single paper wasn’t translated. Because Asperger’s 
              work never made it into English for forty years. And once that happened, 
              then it started to get some momentum and the awareness of there 
              being a broader spectrum of autism came about. I was reading an 
              interviewer with Gary Neumann, the musician. He has Asperger’s. 
              There are a lot of people as adults are finding out that they have 
              Asperger’s—they knew they were different but didn’t 
              know how because there wasn’t a word of it.
RB: The TV room and the billiards room.

PC: Yeah, you often think of literary movements or scenes based 
              around certain person’s house or neighborhood—they all 
              go to drink at the same bar, something like that. There’s 
              almost no equivalent to that with McSweeney’s. There’s 
              826 Valencia in San Francisco.
Since Tom Paine is hardly a typical founding father it should 
              come as no surprise that an inventive and enterprising mind such 
              as Paul Collins would write an atypical book. In a nutshell, the 
              politically dangerous Paine (who could claim a key role in the development 
              of three modern democracies), who was an apostate excluded from 
              every church upon his death, was buried in an open field on a farm. 
              When some time later a former enemy (now converted to an admirer) 
              retrieved Paine’s bones for burial in a planned mausoleum—which 
              was never built—the whereabouts of Paine’s remains devolved 
              into a mystery. Which is part of the stuff of Paul Collins.
RB: From?
RB: It’s tough to avoid the subsidiary issues they seem to 
              be invasively pervasive. I talked to a young writer who is controversial—and 
              then someone who had written two reviews and the second recanted 
              the initial decent review (which on the face of it seems tainted). 
              And somewhere, in an email, or in a conversation, I made fun of 
              that dubious thing. The reviewer then chided me for publicizing 
              a horrible book—as if that is what I do, act as a publicity 
              agent. This is a major fallacy, that journalism can now be subsumed 
              into publicity. Where does this mentality come from, which occupies 
              a lot of space in the literary world?
RB: The causal links are tenuous. Look at someone who has been 
              abused in their childhood—they could become an abuser or not. 
              That doesn’t exist as a sufficient reason.
"Reading at Risk is not a report that the National 
              Endowment for the Arts is happy to issue," Gioia insists. I'm 
              not so sure of that. Gioia seems happy indeed to grind out the old 
              hurdy-gurdy song of cultural decay, dolefully performed by codgers 
              who believe that Reading is declining and falling, rather than merely 
              Reading as They Knew It. What Gioia and centuries of soundalikes 
              never seem to learn is that it does keep falling, but toward a cultural 
              ground forever speeding away from underneath it. Art, it seems, 
              is rather like a satellite—perpetually hurtling earthward, 
              and yet curiously fixed in its orbit.”
RB: What are you trying to avoid? The partisanship?
RB: What was your next vocational aspiration?
PC: It looks like they are going to bring me in to teach one course 
              this fall. In the English department. But the schools in Iowa are 
              fantastic, and the state ought to be proud of what it’s done 
              in special ed.
PC: I don’t know it. Because Asperger’s paper wasn’t 
              translated until 1980, it didn’t have any—
PC: Yes. [laughs] I was really interested in his sense of place 
              in his writing. He really drew from the tradition of Thomas Wolfe, 
              and also there was a real sense of moral outrage in a lot of his 
              writing. The ironic thing being that a lot of people are denouncing 
              him as being part of some sort of immoral generation or movement. 
              A lot of the beat writers got some of the same reaction, where the 
              outrage [pauses] the disbelief over what they were trying to do 
              and what they said they were trying to do seemed disproportionate 
              to what they had said or to their work. I’m not really sure 
              where that comes from—to some extent it’s something 
              I try to avoid—
RB: Electric lamps.
PC: Now I have written on enough different topics that if I go 
              to a publisher and want to write a book about X or Y there is a 
              pretty good chance they will go, “I guess you could do that.” 
              But at the time the only thing I had done was the one book. And 
              that’s how they saw me—as a historical writer. They 
              didn’t know what to make of it when I wrote in another genre. 
              You asked whether a book came about from a series of failures, other 
              things that had hit dead ends. I actually had the skeleton of the 
              travelogue, and I wanted to make it a book about books and make 
              it deliberately digressive. I wanted to frustrate the tendency of 
              the genre, not fall into certain types of stories.
PC: I don’t think I had a very clear notion of what I wanted 
              to do with myself until probably tenth grade. I had always written—ever 
              since elementary school. I had no notion that one could actually 
              make a living off of it. [laughs] I’m still not sure that 
              I do.
RB: [laughs] She ignored you too. So, a vet and then what?
PC: Not so much that. I try to avoid the discussions that are not 
              about the work.
RB: That came after.
PC: No, I haven’t. You sometimes hear editors or agents or 
              people like that: “Well if a writer is really good they’ll 
              find a publisher.” That’s nonsense. If a writer is really 
              good they are more likely to find a publisher, but it is entirely 
              possible that they won’t. [both laugh]
RB: The neatly packaged narrative.
Paul Collins: When I was really young I was interested 
              in archeology.
RB: Well that speaks to their tenacity.
RB: Jack Kerouac, Thomas Paine, hmmm.
PC: Right, that came way after. And there was the McSweeney’s 
              office itself in Brooklyn, which was basically Dave’s apartment 
              and pretty much just him. It really was something that came together 
              as just this web of email contacts between people.
PC: They didn’t have any special training.
RB: One of the generational distinctions I note is that in the 
              postwar generation, my generation didn’t seem to value the 
              notion of a mentor in the way that it seems more common today. It 
              seems a lot of people in these generations after mine seem to cite 
              a person or two who was influential in their lives.
PC: The early ones were handwritten. The later ones I composed 
              on the computer; I still have them. Although the files are so old 
              [that] they are probably corrupted and I couldn’t open them. 
              I haven’t even tried to in years. The last thing I wrote in 
              fiction was when I was living in New York, in Times Square, in ‘93. 
              I wrote a short story collection, each set on a different block 
              of Times Square in each chapter. It moves twelve blocks up the square 
              on one side, then twelve blocks on the other. Like a clock face—I 
              worked on it from ‘93 to early ‘96. I sent it around 
              to a number of agents and went through the usual wringer. Agents 
              writing back saying, “This is great but short stories don’t 
              sell.” After about a nearly a year and a half of that, I continued 
              sending it out—at that point I was twenty-eight—I always 
              assumed I was going to be a fiction writer—it never occurred 
              to me to do nonfiction. I came across Banvard’s story, initially. 
              I thought it was such a great story. My first impulse might have 
              been to write a piece for a scholarly journal, but at that point 
              I was becoming disenchanted with academia. I had been working as 
              an adjunct for a while and finishing my dissertation.
PC: I had been writing for McSweeney’s for few years 
              at that time. And the pieces [that] ended up becoming Banvard’s 
              Folly ran in McSweeney’s first. So I emailed 
              him suggesting, “What if we did a series of reprints of weird 
              old books that have been forgotten and been out of print for a long 
              time?” And as is often the case with Dave, I didn’t 
              hear anything.
RB: That there are relics and fragments remaining 
              from some people and not others is very misleading.
PC: I didn’t really give it much thought, I have to say. 
              [I] certainly didn’t give any thought to what I actually would 
              want to do to earn a living until I entered college and had to pick 
              a major, and even then I went in as a preveterinary. I decided I 
              was going to be a veterinarian.
PC: It doesn’t surprise me. If you look at any literary movement, 
              there is pretty much always a backlash. There are always going to 
              be people who don’t like it either just on legitimate aesthetic 
              grounds—its just not their cup of tea—or there are people 
              who feel locked out or whatever and they feel like they missed the 
              boat, or feel like the people who are in it—their perception 
              of the personalities of the people who they probably haven’t 
              even met—somehow rubs them the wrong way. “I hate what 
              I have heard about you.” [laughs]
RB: I was surprised by your piece in the Bookmark Now 
              anthology in light of the essay you wrote in the Village Voice 
              on the infamous NEA report. Which one was first?
PC: I try to avoid the gossip, which to some extent is an easy 
              thing to do, because I have always been out of the loop. In a real 
              sense, I have always lived out of the way.
PC: Part of it is that people are very suspicious of earnestness. 
              I don’t quite know how to put this—I don’t think 
              my current work would bear any marks that would lead someone to 
              know this, but I did my master’s thesis on Jack Kerouac.
RB: Did you finish?
PC: I enjoy being able to take even a small cross-section of that 
              kind of stuff—there is vast amounts more of it out there. 
              To at least give a sense of how much is out there that’s overlooked. 
              Part of it too: I noticed that four books about bees and honey-making 
              came out at the same time. Four single-subject nonfiction books, 
              and I felt so bad for the authors because it seemed that they had 
              all put in quite a bit of work and—
RB: Still Oregon.
PC: I had the notion at the time that one could 
              not make a living off of writing. I was always writing, and I had 
              the assumption that I was always going to keep writing. It didn’t 
              occur to me until quite a bit later that it might be something I 
              would like to do for a living.
PC: The only thing I can think of as far as that goes is that, 
              other than being at the right place at the right time, and in no 
              small measure having the right kind of talent, some of it is simply 
              the ability to keep putting oneself out there, to be prolific. There 
              are a lot of authors; if you name a certain author someone will 
              be able to name one book, when in fact when [if] you look further 
              you discover that they have twenty or thirty books they wrote. You 
              think if they hadn’t written that one book we might not know 
              about them now. It’s only because of that one book that the 
              rest of their back catalogue is even known.
PC: Not necessarily. Not Even Wrong and Banvard’s 
              Folly were both directed works, as far as their manner of composition. 
              I knew what I wanted to do, and I did it. Sixpence House 
              and The Trouble with Tom were much more chaotic. Sixpence 
              House wasn’t even supposed to happen, initially. I was 
              going to write a sequel to Banvard’s Folly called 
              The Monkey’s Uncle. Banvard’s Folly 
              sold ok—I got my advance, but that was about it. So when I 
              went back to Picador, saying, “Hey, here’s a sequel,” 
              and I had already written a third of it, they were like, “Thank 
              you, but no.” I had written about a hundred pages or so. I 
              decided I will write something about Hay-on-Wye. I had never written 
              a first-person, a memoir, before. So there were a lot of false starts 
              in terms of getting my voice and deciding what I wanted to do—essentially 
              doing a travelogue and subverting it—taking what was becoming 
              a kind of hackneyed genre of “foreigner goes to cute village 
              abroad and settles down and buys a creaky old house.” Except 
              I don’t settle down and I don’t buy the house. And instead 
              it’s really a book about books. People who read it as a travelogue 
              really were mystified by it. And what happened was—I told 
              Picador, “I am going to do this thing about Hay.” I 
              wrote the whole thing and gave it to them and they didn’t 
              like it. And it was, I think, because they were expecting A 
              Year in Provence. [laughs] It was one of those things where 
              my agent stopped returning my calls and emails.
RB: Really. No need to turn students into lab rats.
RB: We know now, in our own time, [that] there are countless writers—and 
              that would seem to be true of—
PC: Not in the subject matter per se. There certainly is in the 
              way they were written. Sixpence House is not a surprising 
              book to someone who read Banvard’s Folly. It was 
              probably quite obvious that I was interested in things that get 
              lost and obscured, and here’s this whole town of nothing but 
              books that are lost. But in terms of actual narrative, it was a 
              complete jump for me. I felt like I was diving into a pool that 
              might or might not have any water. In Not Even Wrong I 
              combined my work for Banvards’s Folly and my technique 
              from Sixpence House. But that will probably remain as my 
              most personal book.
RB: Maybe this is too fine a point, but I wonder 
              when in one’s development one connects what they want to be 
              with the manner of making a living. For children that doesn’t 
              necessarily go to together. Except maybe until recently. My son’s 
              pediatrician once expressed his astonishment that his young patients 
              knew what various professions paid.
PC: I was taking survey courses and stuff like that.
RB: The response to McSweeney’s seemed exaggerated 
              and quite personal.
RB: I don’t either, and I know that’s dumb.
PC: I’m making a facile statement when I say that.
RB: For the uninitiated, that’s Organic Chemistry?
RB: No mentor? No one to say, “Paul, it’s staring you 
              in the face.”
RB: From what I know about you, you were inclined to write fiction 
              until you came upon the idea of the Collins Library.