
But there is also a second constellation of reasons that have led
				to my resignation. They centre around the book Papal Power (1997) which is
				currently being examined by the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith
				(CDF), that part of the papal bureaucracy that deals with Catholic belief. I
				have consistently tried to keep this so-called “examination” in
				perspective and have not treated it too seriously. However, it is clear to me
				that the CDF is moving toward an escalation of the issue. This inevitably
				involves other people. The CDF demands that all correspondence with me pass
				through a third party, the Superior General of my religious order, the
				Missionaries of the Sacred Heart (MSCs). This means that my superiors and the
				order will be caught in any cross-fire between the CDF and myself. I do not
				wish to put them in this position.
This is the kind of Catholicism that I, and many others, have
				embraced throughout our lives. Its foundations, which are deeply embedded in
				church history, were given modern expression in the vision of the church
				articulated at the Second Vatican Council in the 1960s. For Catholics like
				myself our benchmark is a church that is defined as the living sacrament of
				God’s presence and the place where God’s sovereignty is acknowledged,
				expressed through a participative community of people dedicated to the service
				of the world and characterized by collegiality and ecumenism. It is precisely
				this image of Catholicism which I think is being distorted by many at the
				highest level in the contemporary church. I increasingly feel that being a
				priest places me in the position of co-operating with structures that are
				destructive of that open vision of Catholicism and of the faith of the people
				who have embraced it. If I am to be true to my conscience, resignation seems
				the only option.
Over the years my public disquiet with increasing papal centralism
				and the erosion of the vision of a more ecumenical Catholicism is well known,
				especially in Australia. I have often been critical of the church’s
				leadership, perhaps too harshly at times, in books, broadcasts, talks and
				articles. I have been concerned with ecclesiastical narrowness and the de facto
				denial of catholicity. But I also constantly argued that it was only by
				“staying in” the priesthood that someone like myself could influence
				things and bring about change. But it was always an every-day decision to
				continue the struggle through the internal structures of the church. And there
				can come a moment when you decide that both conscientiously and strategically
				“staying in” no longer remains a viable or honest option. You realize
				that you can no longer collude in what is happening by remaining in the
				official priesthood.
On 14 December 2000 the current Superior General of the MSCs,
				Father Michael Curran, was summoned to a meeting in the Palazzo of the Holy
				Office in the Vatican. This meeting happened totally without my knowledge and I
				only found out about it five weeks later. At the meeting Father Curran was
				asked why I had not responded to three issues raised in a letter from the CDF
				sent to me via Curran and my Australian superior in April 1999. He responded by
				providing the CDF with an article I had written in a theological magazine
				called Compass responding to the CDF’s concerns. He felt the
				article “would go a long way to answering” the CDF’s questions.
				In the course of the discussion reference was also made to a mildly critical
				media statement about the CDF that I had made, which was briefly reported in
				the US National Catholic Reporter (16 July 1999).
It is my perception that at present many in the hierarchy and some
				laity are moving increasingly in this narrow, elitist direction. Over the last
				few years I have watched with escalating concern as a series of documents have
				been published by the Vatican, the last of which was the declaration of the
				Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, Dominus Jesus (DJ),
				issued on 6 August 2000. DJ, which claims to protect the uniqueness of Christ,
				in fact expresses a profoundly anti-ecumenical spirit at odds with the sense of
				God’s grace permeating the whole cosmos. DJ gives voice to a wider
				movement that is slowly but pervasively turning the Catholic church inward in
				an increasingly sectarian direction. It is this which concerns me most.
Ratzinger claimed in a subsequent letter to Curran (18 December
				2000) that my critical comments “may put [my] alleged adherence to
				magisterial teaching in question.” In other words, even if my theological
				answers in the Compass article were found to be satisfactory, the
				comments in the NCR would show that I had not really repented because I
				was still criticising the CDF after writing the Compass article.
The fact that we are retreating from the Vatican II vision of
				Catholicism may not be everyone’s view of what is actually taking place in
				the church. I accept that, and I also accept that the tension between a broad,
				open vision of Catholicism rooted in living experience, and a narrower, static
				hierarchical view of faith, runs right through church history.
But catholicity also has a profound theological meaning. The
				recently appointed American Cardinal Avery Dulles, SJ has a fine book entitled
				The Catholicity of the Church (1988). Catholicity, he says, is
				characterised by (1) inclusiveness, which means openness to various cultures
				and opposition to sectarianism and religious individualism; (2) by an ability
				to bridge generations and historical periods; (3) by an openness to truth and
				value wherever it exists; (4) by a recognition that it is the Holy Spirit who
				creates the unity of the church through whose indwelling we participate in the
				life of God.
I have no doubt that the Congregation will not go away, and that
				they will not let this matter rest. As the experience of the six other people
				in the new book makes abundantly clear, there is never any form of dialogue.
				The Congregation simply demands that a person not only submit to what they
				define as “doctrine,” but they are determined that you actually use
				the words that they dictate. I knew exactly what I was doing when I edited From
				Inquisition to Freedom, but I thought it was important these stories be told
				for they expose the injustice of the CDF’s procedures and their
				persecution of people who are clearly concerned to live a truly Catholic life
				and to give ministerial and theological leadership to others. But there is also
				no doubt that the book will lead to a further exacerbation of my relationship
				with the CDF, and that the order and Father Curran will be caught in the
				middle. My resignation will to some extent save them from that.
What Ad Tuendam Fidem has done is to introduce formally
				through this “second level” a category of “definitive” but
				non-infallibly-defined doctrine. Cardinal Josef Ratzinger says that this
				second-level teaching is, in fact, infallible. He says that it includes
				“… all those teachings in the dogmatic or moral area which are
				necessary for faithfully keeping and expounding the deposit of faith, even if
				they have not been proposed by the magisterium as formally revealed.” As
				examples of second level definitive teaching he includes the condemnation of
				euthanasia, the validity of the canonization of a particular saint, the
				legitimacy of a papal election, and even the invalidity of Anglican orders. The
				gratuitous reference to Anglican orders is astonishingly maladroit and
				insulting; it reveals a real lack of ecumenical sensitivity.
What helped to focus my mind was the article “Catholic
				Fundamentalism. Some Implications of Dominus Jesus for Dialogue and
				Peacemaking,” by my friend, John D’Arcy May. [The article is one of a
				series of essays in the book, Dominus Jesus. Anstoessige Wahrheit oder
				anstoessige Kirche edited by Michael Rainer]. DJ is primarily directed
				against those Catholics involved in the “wider ecumenism” who have
				been trying to find common ground with the great non-Christian religious
				traditions. But DJ also managed to offend many Anglicans and Protestants
				through an awkwardly-worded passage that was so obscure that many journalists
				incorrectly took it to mean that only Catholics could be saved. The passage
				actually says that Anglicanism and the various forms of Protestantism “are
				not churches in the proper sense”(DJ, Paragraph 17).
National Catholic Reporter, Posted March 9,
				2001
It is precisely this movement in a sectarian and fundamentalist
				direction with which I profoundly disagree. A person with a public commitment
				like a priest is bound in conscience to ask: “Can I continue to co-operate
				with this kind of regime in the church?” I feel bound in all honesty to
				say now: “No. I cannot.” But I emphasize this does not mean that I
				have the slightest intention of leaving the community of the Catholic church,
				nor of abandoning my work in writing and media, as long as that is available to
				me.
After thirty-three years I have decided to resign as an
				“active” priest to return to being an ordinary Catholic believer.
				Many people will justifiably ask: Why? The reason is simple: I can no longer
				conscientiously subscribe to the policies and theological emphases coming from
				the Vatican and other official church sources.
While the reason is straight forward, the decision to resign is
				the result of a personal and theological process. This, of course, is not a
				step that I have taken lightly and I have been considering it for some time. I
				will try to outline the reasons in detail.
Finally, I want to make it absolutely clear that my resignation
				does not mean that I have any intention whatsoever of leaving the Catholic
				church. I am just changing status in the family. Catholicism is my home and I
				have no intention of leaving - come what may.
However, the Cardinal’s chronology was wrong. His comments
				make it clear that he believes that the NCR interview was published
				after the Compass article. In fact, the 16 July, 1999 NCR interview was
				published several months before the spring 1999 edition of Compass. I suppose
				you could forgive the Cardinal for not remembering that spring in the southern
				hemisphere comes in September-October, and not in April-May as in the northern
				hemisphere. The Compass interview was published in the southern spring of 1999,
				which was October-November. That is some three or four months after the July
				NCR article.
It was the opening sentences of May’s commentary that struck
				me between the eyes. “There is no reason, in principle, why the Roman
				Catholic church, despite its enormous size and global presence, could not
				become a sect. Sectarianism is a matter of mentality, not size ... The deep
				shock Dominus Jesus caused in ecumenical circles consisted precisely in
				their exposure to the specifically Roman Catholic form of fundamentalism.”
				This put into words what I had unconsciously concluded but had not
				articulated.
The core of the problem is that, in my view, many in
				ecclesiastical leadership at the highest level are actually moving in an
				increasingly sectarian direction and watering down the catholicity of the
				church and even unconsciously neglecting elements of its teaching. Since this
				word “catholicity” will recur often I will define it. It is derived
				from the Greek word katholikos that means “general,”
				“broad” or “universal.” The Shorter Oxford Dictionary
				defines catholicity as “the quality of having sympathies with or being
				all-embracing; broad-mindedness; tolerance.”
Some times there is a hankering after a more genuinely Catholic
				approach - as you find in John Paul II’s encyclical Ut unum sint
				(1995), where he went so far as to ask the other churches for advice on papal
				primacy. But ecclesiastical reality indicates that this hankering is, in fact,
				merely ecumenical wishful- thinking, while the hierarchical reality is
				exclusivist.
Be that as it may, the whole tone of Ratzinger’s letter to
				Curran makes it obvious that the CDF is preparing to censure me because the
				Cardinal’s comments clearly prejudge the issue. The constant difficulty in
				dealing with the CDF is that your accusers are also your judges. An accused
				person is not even allowed to choose their own defence counsel; they are not
				even permitted to know the counsel’s name.
There have also been regular attempts to “muzzle” and
				condemn the discussion of issues such as the ordination of women through the
				use of a new category of doctrine. This has received its clearest expression in
				the apostolic letter Ad Tuendam Fidem (30 June 1998). The letter argues
				that there is an intermediary, “second level” of revealed doctrine
				between the established and defined teaching that all Catholics believe, and
				what up until now has been called the “ordinary magisterium.” Before
				the introduction of this so-called “second level,” all non-infallible
				or non-defined teaching was exactly that: doctrine that should be respected and
				offered various levels of submission of mind and will, but still ultimately
				open to debate, discussion and development within the Church community.
While important, life-changing decisions may seem sudden to
				outsiders, and even some times to the person who makes them, that is rarely the
				case. Such conclusions are more likely to be the product of long unconscious
				reflection on an issue. Slowly the connections, inferences and directional
				movement in which the internal and unarticulated argument has been progressing
				comes into consciousness. Often it will be a single event that focuses your
				thought and impels you toward a decision. Suddenly you realize that, in
				conscience, you can no longer allow your name to be associated with what is
				happening. Of course, your judgement may be wrong, frighteningly so, but the
				Catholic tradition has always been that you must follow even an erroneous
				conscience. Certainly you must do everything you can to ascertain what is
				really happening and what your obligations are, but in the end you must be true
				to conscience.
Sectarianism is incompatible with genuine catholicity. It is the
				antithesis of the kind of openness to the world, tolerant acceptance of others
				and a sense of religious pluralism that most thinking Catholics have been
				formed in and have embraced over the last three or four decades. Thus many
				Catholics find themselves involved in a corrosive disjunction between what they
				believe and have experienced, and the views expressed at the highest levels of
				the church. The reason is because those who claim to articulate Catholic belief
				seem to be abandoning their catholic spirit. As a result there is a
				turning away from the other Christian churches, and a rejection of the search
				for common ground with the other great religious traditions. Thus more and more
				thinking Catholics who have been educated and live in pluralist, democratic and
				tolerant societies, find themselves in conflict with church hierarchs who seem
				to be moving in an ever-more sectarian direction.
There is also an emerging unspoken assumption among some very
				senior church leaders that the contemporary western world is so far gone in
				individualism, permissiveness and consumerism that it is totally impervious to
				church teaching. Claiming to assume the broader historical perspective, these
				churchmen have virtually abandoned the secularised masses, to nurture elitist
				enclaves which will carry the true faith through to future, more
				“receptive” generations. This is why the New Religious Movements
				(NRMs) have received so much favour and patronage in this papacy. The NRMs have
				embraced an essentially sectarian vision of Catholicism, are very hierarchical
				in structure and theologically reactionary. This is true of some elements in
				the Catholic charismatic movement, and also outfits like Opus Dei, Communion
				and Liberation, the Neo-Catechuminate and the Legionaries of Christ, as well as
				a number of other smaller, less significant groupings.
REASONS FOR RESIGNATION
This situation with the CDF will be exacerbated even more when a
				new book that I have edited is published in March in Australia and in the
				northern spring of 2001 in London and New York. It is entitled From
				Inquisition to Freedom. It consists of interviews that I put together with
				six people who have also been “investigated” by the CDF. Those
				participating in it are Tissa Balasuriya, Hans Küng, Charles Curran,
				Lavinia Byrne, Jeannine Gramick, and Robert Nugent, as well as myself. I have
				contributed two other essays, the first outlining the history of how the Roman
				Inquisition eventually evolved into the CDF, and a second describing and
				critiquing the details of the Congregation’s procedures. While the tone of
				the book is respectful and moderate, I don’t think it will win friends and
				influence people in Rome. I foresee considerable problems. The most important
				of these are that the book will eventually place Father Curran particularly,
				and the MSCs generally, in the likely position of being forced by the CDF to
				take some form of punitive action against me.
Paul Collins, 1 February, 2001.