
I am a Catholic believer, indeed a passionate one, but for me faith

is always lived out within the context of history.  Thus our theological

understandings are always determined and limited by the constraints of

culture and human experience.  We can never exhaust in any one theological

approach or statement the transcendent and mysterious realities that underlie

and give context to our beliefs.  Among these realities is the church,

whose mystery we are constantly challenged to explore.  My belief

is that in all of this the Holy Spirit of God is alive and active, constantly

guiding the church.  Our understanding of ultimate mystery is always

developing.
In the book I use Ordinatio sacerdotalis (on the ordination

of women) as an example of ordinary magisterium being 'modulated" into

the ordinary and universal magisterium and thus, by implication, into infallible

teaching.  The problem that I make reference to is the question of

how Ordinatio sacerdotalis can be part of the ordinary and

universal magisterium when there is no apparent evidence that anyone has

asked the bishops their view, and when a sizeable portion of the theological

magisterium is seemingly doubtful about how the question should be resolved

?
The argument then goes on to reject the post-Tridentine idea of tradition

as the articulation of the unwritten teachings of Jesus.  I then emphasise

the creative element in tradition and stress that tradition is more about

process than content.  It is here that we strike again the problem

mentioned above: my approach is explicitly historical.  My position

is that doctrinal truth works itself out in the processes of church history

under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, whereas your consulter seemingly

has a more static view.  All that I have said is in complete harmony

with Vatican II's Dei Verbum.
Re: Your ref. 96/82-05519
A criticism has been made by some theologians that I tend to treat reception

as a post factum reality; that is, a teaching is ultimately confirmed as

true when the Catholic community "receives" it.  I would simply argue

in defence of my view that it also seems to be the approach taken by Cardinal

John Henry Newman.  Speaking specifically of the definition of infallibility

at Vatican I, Newman said: "If the definition is eventually received by

the whole body of the faithful ... then too it will claim our assent by

the force of the great dictum
20 April 1998.
The decree is clear about its purpose: "the eradication of the present

schism" and the "reform of God's church [in] head and members".  The

very directness of the language of Haec sancta conveyed the feeling of

the need for action in a time of crisis.  The first two points of

Haec sancta were the most important theologically: Firstly, Constance claimed

that it was "legitimately assembled", that it represented the whole church

and it had power "immediately from Christ".  Secondly, Haec sancta

stated: Therefore, "everyone of whatever state or dignity, even papal,

is bound to obey it in those matters which pertain to the faith, the eradication
of the said schism and the general reform of the ... church" (The translation

is from Norman P. Tanner's Decrees of the Ecumenical Councils).
Thus the book has a context, but your consulter seemingly regards it

as though it existed in the abstract.  His Observations

would have had more credibility with fair-minded people if they had an

introduction saying something like: "This is who Paul Collins is and this

is what he has tried to do. Now let's look at the book in the light of

that".  Instead, there is an attempt at a kind of "objectivity" that

proceeds as though I did not exist.
Ultimately, the Catholic church and the people of God will be the judge

of us all,
Here I would like to refer briefly to the least relevant comment that

your consulter makes.  He says that I attack "the condemnation of

modernism, failing to understand its true harm".  It would seem to

me that assessing "the true harm of modernism" is a matter of historical

judgement and has nothing whatsoever to do with doctrine.  As a consequence

it certainly does not come under the aegis of the Congregation for the

Doctrine of the Faith.  This statement seems a bit like "point scoring"

to me.
The consulter then goes on to say that I hold "an erroneous concept

of infallibility, in as much as [I] only conceive of it in its solemn and

ex cathedra manner, thus excluding the infallibility of the ordinary and

universal magisterium".  He quotes four passages from the book which

are apparently meant to demonstrate his contention.
I have spent much of the last two decades of my life standing up for

the Catholic church in public life in Australia, often having to face hard

questions in the media, for example in the area of clerical sexual abuse. 

There have not been many of us who have stood up and been counted in public

as people explicitly committed to the Catholic church.  I am sure

you can understand that to have someone chosen by the Holy See to then

imply that I do not believe in the truth of Christianity is rather hard

to take.
Sometimes one is tempted to think that there are contemporary parallels

to the suppression of modernism.  And I think I need to ask your Congregation

if any consideration is being given to the harm done to the reputations

of many loyal and hardworking Catholic lay teachers, theologians, priests

and even bishops by reactionaries who constantly call anyone with whom

they happen to disagree "modernists" ?
In fact the passages he quotes do not show that I exclude the infallibility

of the ordinary and universal magisterium at all, but they reveal my concern

about the extension at the popular level of the ordinary and universal

magisterium to all and every papal teaching.  And please remember

this book was written as popular theology.  Papal Power

nowhere suggests that I have any problem with accepting what is universally

held by the pope and the bishops.
Papal Power then goes on to examine the question of the

required moral unanimity at Vatican I. With Bermejo I think that there

are more serious questions to be asked here.  I quote Bermejo saying

that the required moral unanimity was not reached (p 116) . I have great

respect for him as a careful historian who has studied the sources thoroughly. 

On this issue I neither agree nor disagree with him in my book.  And

that is still my position.
Archbishop Tarcisio Bertone, 

Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, 

Palazzo del S. Uffizio, 

00120 Citta del Vaticano.  Vatican City State.
Your consulter then turns to the issue of conciliarism.  I said

in the book that "I lean strongly in [the conciliarist] direction" if that

term is taken strictly to mean that a general council is ultimately superior

to a pope, especially in time of crisis.  Contrary to your consulter,

that is the teaching of the Council of Constance.  At the third session

on 26 March 1415, led by Cardinal Francesco Zabarella, the Council declared

that it had been constituted in a proper way and at the fifth session on

6 April 1415 the fathers confirmed the decree Haec sancta synodus

which had already been prepared by Zabarella.
I am not alone in this concern about "creeping infallibility". 

Father J.M.R. Tillard, OP in his seminal book The Bishop of Rome

(Wilmington, Del: Michael Glazier, English trans., 1983), after

detailing some examples of ultramontanism which passed in some places as

catechetical instruction up to as late as the 1960s, says: "Another sign

of this inflated ultramontanism, so different from the vastly more prudent

and sober tone of Pastor Aeternus, is a particular conception of the ordinary

magisterium ... This may be seen in the way every judgement which comes

from Rome is implicitly canonised, whether it be dogmatic, theological

or spiritual.  Before the influence of Vatican II made itself felt,

the starting point of theological reflection ... was 'the teaching of the

magisterium. The views of anyone not on the same wavelength as 'the centre

of Christianity, were systematically ignored, indeed considered suspect;

theological light could only shine from on high", (pp 32-33).  My

contention in Papal Power is that this false canonisation

of Roman teaching has continued and is still to be found among many people.
Unfortunately, I have not received any response from you to my letter

of two and a half months ago.  So, as a gesture of my willingness

to participate in some form of reasonable discussion of the concerns your

Congregation has with my book Papal Power, I have decided

to initiate the dialogue by responding to the Observations

of your anonymous consulter.  However, because of my commitment to

open discussion of these issues I wish to reiterate that I will make this

letter public.
Something of this was well expressed recently here in Australia by Father

Kevin Dance, CP.  He is the President of the Australian Conference

of Leaders of Religious Institutes, and commenting on "the Collins case",

and another public ecclesiastical dispute here, he said: "The Catholic

church is committed to truth, but discovering truth is a process not an

accomplishment.  Truth is dynamic, not static".  Exactly !
The context of my attempt to communicate with the people of today has

been the media - radio, TV and, to an increasing extent, the written word. 

I do not think it would be immodest to say that I have had some success. 

This was acknowledged by one prominent Australian Catholic theologian who,

when commenting on my contretemps with your Congregation, said: "Paul Collins

has won a sympathetic hearing for Christian positions among people who
would normally class themselves as the 'educated despisers of religion'

... [and] has attracted many young people who had assumed that the church

has nothing to say on the issues of the day".
I would suggest that Cardinal John Henry Newman's notion of the development

of doctrine is actually closer to the historical view of faith.  Catholic

Christianity has never been a religion of static law and unchanging doctrine,

established once and for all in the past and true for ever.  Taken

to its logical conclusion, this is fundamentalism.
Yours sincerely,
Actually, I would have thought that your consulter's summary of Papal

Power's views is a reasonable, if a somewhat abbreviated and simplified

statement, of the doctrine of reception. my understanding is that the papal

magisterium has a solemn obligation to make sure that what it teaches is

in conformity with what the bishops and community of the church believe. 

When this is carefully and fully carried out "The assent of the church

can never be lacking to such definitions on account of the Holy Spirit's

influence" (Lumen gentium, 25).  If non-reception occurs those

responsible have a further serious obligation to review their decision

in the light of the belief of the faithful.
PO BOX 4053, 

MANUKA.  ACT. 2603.
It is clearly spelled out in the book that I believe in the continuation

of Petrine primacy through Roman primacy.  Any other reading is a

distortion of my position.  Certainly, I am critical of the First

Vatican Council's definition of primacy precisely because it is couched

in canonical, legal terms and has actually neglected the rich theology

of primacy that can be found especially in the first millennium of church

history.  But criticism of a conciliar text - and I am not alone in

this criticism - is not tantamount to rejection.  My point about Vatican

I is that it did not take church history sufficiently into account.
In fact, Archbishop Bertone, you can set your mind at rest on this issue. 

I have said over and over again, both publicly and privately, that I have

a deep sense of belonging to the Catholic church and to its extraordinary

tradition.  I have no intention of leaving, for it is here that I

have found God in the Spirit of Christ.
Let us now turn to the consulter's Observations: When

I first received the Observations I showed them to an Anglican

friend, a theologian unacquainted with the ways of the Roman bureaucracy. 

He commented that the Observations were written as though

Papal Power was written in a vacuum and had no relationship

to me.  He went on to say that the book was the product of my experience

and ministry and some knowledge of that would be needed to make a mature

judgement of it.
In fact, the reality is that the overwhelming weight of historiographic

opinion today is against your consulter's view.  The majority view

is expressed by Professor Roger Aubert, who knows the papacy of Pius X

and this period better than most.  Having conceded that the modernists

were far from perfect in attitude (who is?), he says: "One has to admit

that the various measures employed to hold back the tide of modernism must

be assessed negatively.  Many men loyal to the church were mercilessly

banned ... But more serious than these personal fates were other facts:

for a long time the undifferentiated suppression of modernism kept the

majority of the clergy from pursuing intellectual investigations .... The

gap between the church and modern culture widened.  The solution of

fundamental problems was postponed, and by simply ignoring them nothing

was won, but, on the contrary, harm was done" Roger Aubert in Hubert Jedin

(editor), History of the Church.  The Church in the Industrial

Age, New York: Crossroad, 1981, Vol IX, pp 387-388).
But before addressing specific issues, I think it is important to mention

firstly some of the unanswered questions involved in what is now being

called in Australia "the Collins case".  I still remain ignorant of

who it was who delated my book to your Congregation.  Subsequent events

in Australia have suggested to me, and to a number of other informed people

here, that one or other of the bishops may have played a role in the delation,

but because your process protects accusers, one cannot say definitely and

we may be entirely wrong in our suspicions.
This leads us logically to the second criticism of your consulter. 

His Observations say that I "appear to deny the identity

of the Church of Christ with the Catholic Church, suggesting a reunion

of Christians characterised by indifferentism".  Here again we are

dealing with an inference: I "appear" to deny.  But when you read

the passage he quotes from p 199 I simply talk about "the richness and

diversity of the [other] Christian traditions" and suggest that we work

toward intercommunion rather than corporate union, so that the richness

of each of the traditions of faith be preserved.  This is hardly a

denial of the truth of the Catholic church.
First he says that "the author's concept of tradition is more than nebulous"

and then refers to passages on p 128 and p 216.  Again, I have this

feeling that he has not read the book carefully.  I talk specifically

about tradition in pp 125 to 130.  I define tradition not as the static

process of merely repeating the past, but as a dynamic process of handing

on the faith.  Then I say: "Catholics take tradition as a source and

norm of faith.  God, Catholic theology says, reveals God's self to

us through the Bible and through the tradition of the church.  But

tradition has never been definitively defined.  Probably it cannot

be: it is one of those dynamic concepts that defies definition" (p 126).
Interestingly, if you read them carefully, most of the criticisms of

your anonymous consulter are actually inferences drawn from the book

rather than clear statements of mine that have been found to contain specific

doctrinal problems.
Finally, your anonymous consulter says that "I appear to reject papal

primacy" - another inference - because of lack of freedom at Vatican I.

Let's get clear what I actually say.  I summarise Father Luis Bermejo,

SJ saying: "There are serious doubts about Vatican I's freedom, but he

(Bermejo) emphasises that this is still an open question" (p 115) . "Open"

in English means that the question is still debatable.  To say that

debate about a possible lack of freedom is an "open question" is hardly

tantamount to rejection of papal primacy.
‘securus judicat orbis terrarum'".  He refers to reception by the

faithful as "the ultimate guarantee of revealed truth" (Both quotations

are taken from The Letters and Diaries of John Henry Newman,

edited by Charles Stephen Dessain, Vol XXV, pp 165, 1712).
Moving now to your consulter's comments on my treatment of the doctrine

of reception.  He says that I maintain "that in order for a teaching

to become a doctrine of the Church it is first debated by theologians and

decided on by Bishops, but then it must be accepted or received by the

Congregatio fidelium".  He does not say what is wrong with that summary

of the notion of reception, although I suspect it is the reference to the

community of the faithful that worries him.  Obviously, my text presupposes

that the pope participates in this process as head of the college of bishops.

Father Francis A. Sullivan, SJ certainly seems to back up my concern

in the quotation I cite on p 19 of Papal Power.  He

says that for something to be taught infallibly by the ordinary magisterium

it has "to be clearly established that the tradition has remained constant,

and that even today the universal body of Catholic bishops is teaching

the same doctrine to be definitively held".  It is hard to see how

these conditions could be fulfilled when the question has only been around

for at most two decades.
In conclusion, Archbishop, I have to say that in general I found your

consulter's Observations quite extraordinary.  With

the exception of the issue of the ordinary and universal magisterium, the

criticisms are nothing more than inferences drawn from quotations taken

out of context from my book.
The book is also explicitly ecumenical in intention and is directed

to members of the other Christian churches.  In Papal 

Power I have tried to explain as openly as possible the Catholic

doctrines of ecclesial governance, while remaining true to the tradition,

as a gesture of openness toward those Christians separated from us. 

I believe that my approach in many ways mirrors the approach taken in official

ecumenical dialogues, which are often sponsored by the Holy See.
But that does not blind me to the profound Christian truths and tradition

embedded within the other churches.  Does your consulter think that

the other communities - the Orthodox, for instance - are deficient and

second class Christians ? Does he suggest that we are the only "true" Christians? 

If so, he might have difficulty with the 1993 Ecumenical Directory

(17) - which I have no doubt your vigilant Congregation would have carefully

scrutinised before publication.  The Directory talks about "the rich

diversity of spirituality, discipline, liturgical rites and elaborations

of revealed truth that have grown up among the churches" (my emphasis)

. The phrase that I have emphasised would certainly suggest that a diversity

of theological views is also acceptable within the broad ambit of Catholic

truth.
I have one simple question: where in divine revelation can one find

the term plenitudo potestatis?  The historical facts are that

the term comes from Roman law.  It entered the canonical tradition

just before the time of Innocent III.  In this period fullness of

authority became synonymous in canonical thought with papal primacy. 

As John A. Watt has pointed out two historical sources come together to

inject meaning into the term plenitudo potestatis.  The canonists

linked the authority granted to Peter in the Petrine text with the notion

of imperial or monarchical power which had came into canon law from Roman

law.  Increasingly, in practice, the popes imitated imperial power. 

By the time of Innocent III the term plenitudo potestatis denoted

papal sovereignty.  This sovereignty became co-terminus with primacy.
Now, I concede that Papal Power is not a complete history

of the papacy and that I choose material to support my (perfectly reasonable

and verifiable) argument that the gradual process of over-centralisation

of control has brought about a dysfunctional situation in the contemporary

church.  But the practical problem that my publishers faced is that

they had to work within the constraints of size and price when putting

out a book such as mine.  You can't say everything in one work.
Your consulter, however, clearly emerges from a different theological

perspective.  Here faith is seen in a more normative, static sense

- and I do not use the word "static" in a derogatory way.  He seemingly

proceeds from the assumption that the profound mysteries at the core of

faith can be clearly expressed within a specific theological tradition,

and that the development of doctrine is an almost logical process within

that context.  The process is largely outside and beyond the realities

of history.
It was only when I cooled down that I realised that much in the Observations

could be explained by the fact that your consulter and I are coming from

different starting points.
Papal Power is not, and was never meant to be, an academic

treatment of theological issues.  It is popular theology written for

an intelligent lay audience.  In the book I explicitly say that I

am not a theologian (p 5) and I make it clear that my approach is both

historical and practical.  This, of course, does not excuse me from

being doctrinally and historically accurate.
[Rev.  Dr. Paul Collins, MSC].
What I try to do in Papal Power, albeit in terms of popular

theology, is to examine something of the development of the structure and

government of our church.  For me change and development, inspired

and guided by the Holy Spirit, is part of the process of belief. 

However, I would also maintain that there is an organic and continuous

development that occurs in, through, and often despite the vagaries of

church history.
Again here we are dealing with historical facts.  To infer from

this historical discussion that I reject papal primacy is totally incorrect.
This notion of context is the second point that I want to emphasise

with you.  The book emerges from my life and ministry which, for the

last two decades has been lived out in an attempt to explain some of the

riches of the Catholic tradition for those educated Catholics who are struggling

to remain intellectually honest in the church, or for those who no longer

find that the church meets their intellectual needs.  I have also

tried to speak to the broader educated community that, perhaps unfairly,

often sees the Catholic church as an outdated rump focused only on the

issues of sexuality and social conservatism.  Because of the way we

Catholics often present ourselves in Australia, the richness and breadth

of the tradition of Catholicism has been lost, and we are perceived in

public discourse as a church with a very blinkered vision.
At first sight one of the most extraordinary comments made by your consulter's

Observations is that my "presentation implies that a true

and binding revelation does not exist". (Note well, he uses the word "implies". 

As I said above, we are dealing here with an inference, not a fact). 

At first I could not believe that I was reading this.  Excuse my bluntness,

but I found that an insulting comment, given that the man making it was

hiding behind a mask of anonymity, and that he was a person who clearly

knew nothing about me.
When discussing my "method" your consulter says that I read church history

out of context, that there are "not a few historical inaccuracies" in the

book, and that I look for proof texts "to support [my] thesis that the

primacy of the Roman pontiff is not rooted in divine revelation but in

secular political models".
The serious problem with anonymous denunciation is that it breeds suspicion. 

Accusers act in the dark and do not have to assume moral responsibility

for what they do, so there is an inevitable perception of injustice. 

I am obliged to answer publicly for my book, but they can act silently,
without having to assume any public responsibility for their attacks on

me and my perceived opinions.
He then goes on to say that I "reject the plenitudo potestatis

of the Roman Pontiff claiming it is a juridical term that has its roots

in the Bull Unam Sanctam and not in divine revelation".
Most historians now accept that Constance was ecumenical from the beginning. 

The idea that it only "became ecumenical" from the time the legate of Gregory

XII staged a reading of the bull of convocation is now largely abandoned. 

It was not clear who was the pope at the time - there were three candidates

and it is simply an assumption to say that Gregory XII was legitimate pope. 

Again, we are engaged here in historical issues and it is for historians

to decide, not theologians.
Let us now turn to the specific problems with the book that your anonymous

consulter mentions.
Newman argues in his Essay on the Development of Christian Doctrine

that the church's inner life is like an idea that is continually clarified

and expanded by development and growth.  His profound historical sense

led him unerringly to the realisation that the more the church grows, develops

and changes, the more it becomes truly itself.  He concludes his extraordinary

image of the river in the Essay on Development with the famous

statement: "Here below to live is to change, and to be perfect is to have

changed often".
The Observations begin by saying that "the book is primarily

a critique of papal primacy and ordinary magisterium".  This is simply

a completely mistaken reading of the book.  It is much broader than

that.  It fundamentally attempts to deal with the major structural

issues facing the Catholic church today and makes suggestions as to how

we might move as a church community into the future.  In the process

Papal Power deals with issues such as Christian leadership

in the New Testament and the early church as a model for today (pp 139-143;

149151), the churches and ecumenism (pp 111-117), the collegiality of bishops

(pp 14-20; 185-187), councils and the future of the church (pp 197-203),

the role of theologians (pp 15-20), priestly celibacy (pp 101-103), and

much more.
Now, Archbishop Bertone, I think it is important to get this on the

record: I certainly do not deny that the Roman primacy is part of divine

revelation.  Your consulter does not seem to have read the book carefully. 

For example, I say unequivocally on page 150: "The Petrine text is clear

that the leadership of the church was conferred on Peter and it is also

demonstrable that there was a strong early tradition of identifying the

bishop of Rome with Peter... In fact, as [Father J.M.R.] Tillard points

out, the notion of Petrine succession is far more significant than is generally

recognised today.  He argues that there is an almost sacramental sense

in which Peter lives on in his see of Rome" (p 150).
Your consulter also says that I say that "the place of the Supreme Pontiff

in relation to other Bishops is primus inter pares" as though this

were an absolute statement on my part.  But it is qualified (in block

letters) with the phrase "primacy in the first millennium" (p 161) . The

whole section (pp 161-164) simply talks about the theological views held

in the period prior to Damasus I (366-384) . In this section I am not spelling

out what I think, but what the historical situation was.  Either the

consulter has not read the section, or he misrepresents my position totally. 

Either way, it is an utterly incorrect assumption to infer - again it is

an inference -  that this brief saying sums up my view of papal primacy.
Dear Archbishop Bertone,
My argument is with the way in which this phrase has subsequently come

to be used as a catch-all term for each and every papal teaching. 

The view of the book is that the ordinary and universal magisterium has

been gradually expanded to include the ordinary magisterium of the pope

-and to extend to it a kind of "quasi-infallible" status in popular perception.