
Paul Collins' Beat 2 albums on 1 cd reissue!
"Those were good times," says Paul Collins. "I remember one time when the club we were at set 2 tables up as part of the backstage autograph session and industry meet. The Ramones were seated on the table to the left and we (The Beat) were seated on the table to the right. Joey (Ramone) kept complaining about the loud noises coming from the other room and when I looked up, 50 or 60 girls came running backstage, passing right through security. Somehow, a wild boar had gotten into the club and was terrorizing the fans. There were girls running everywhere, screaming for their lives. We must've been stuck there for 6 hours after the show that night but it was a good bonding experience for everyone. Afterwards, I had dinner with Joey (Ramone) and then we called some of the girls. We spent the rest of the night at a party Joey (Ramone) was invited to."
PAUL COLLINS' BEAT MUSIC VIDEOS FROM THE RAMONES ROCK N ROLL HIGH SCHOOL TOUR AVAILABLE FOR FREE DOWNLOAD
Wounded Bird Records has just released a special cd containing the two albums To Beat or Not To Beat and Long Time Gone. This cd boasts several bonus tracks and all of the songs have been digitally remastered using the latest in today's technology. Please refer to the official site for Wounded Bird Records http://www.woundedbird.com for ordering information, photos and tracklistings.
"Once one time when we were on tour, there was this huge venue we played. It was a concert hall, almost as big as a full-scale arena. The crowds were really bad and there were mobs of girls outside waiting to get their hands on us. That night, our manager had to double the band, which means they found look-alikes for each of us. While the 4 of us left through the side door and left in a cramped, small 2-door sedan, the 4 guys impersonating us (The Beat) exited through the back door of the club."
These videos are taken from The Ramones Rock N Roll High School Tour in 1979. Paul Collins' Beat toured with The Ramones in support of this film and album soundtrack. Please visit the official Paul Collins' Beat website PAULCOLLINSBEAT.COM for further details. The official website includes rare photos, interviews, tour dates, merchandise and other information for fans.
Hello, Great site!!! Would like to talk to you. Please call me at number listed below. Thank you, Paul Collins (212) ***-****
Here at the Paul Collins' Beat fanclub, we have confirmed that Paul Collins' Beat have recently finished recording a new album. Though we have few details, the release date is set for 2005. Paul Collins' Beat will conduct a world tour in support of the new album, entitled "Flying High."
