
Welkin is a Skyborn on the Skyworld ship Colony. 
              It ventured off almost three hundred years ago to the system of 
              Tau Ceti to colonise Tau Ceti III. When Welkin's ancestors arrived 
              they found that the elliptical nature of Tau Ceti III's orbit prohibited 
              them from inhabiting the new planet. A huge debate tore the new 
              settlers, eventually the Elders reinforced the idea that their destiny 
              had changed and that the real future lay in returning to the civil 
              war-torn home planet, Earth.
It is no tome of a book at 240 pages but that is 
              another really great thing, it is clipped in such a way no word 
              is unnecessary. It is all a development of the story and quite a 
              few authors of Science Fiction and fantasy would do well to take 
              this skill on board from Collins. You don't need a vast background 
              to tell a bloody good story, the story will do its job just fine 
              without filler!
Daredevil
Advertise 
              Here (More ...)
The Wood Wife by Terri Windling
Renaissance E-Books Overview
I really loved this book. Can you tell? It is like 
              a cross between ‘Return Of The Jedi’ and ‘The Lord Of The Flies’. 
              While I found ‘Lord Of The Flies’ disturbing when I read it, it 
              was disturbing in an eye-opening way and this is where this book 
              has great strength.
Language In Thought And Action by SI Hayakawa
Kushiel’s Avatar by Jacqueline Carey
Latro In The Mist by Gene Wolfe
The Earthborn by Paul Collins 
pub: TOR. 240 page hardback. Price: $23.95 (US), 
              $33.95 (CAN). ISBN: 0-765-30307-8
OTHER REVIEWS - August 2003
The style of writing is so fresh that it is easy 
              to get into very quickly. I must admit I have never seen a book 
              quite like it in its conception. There are two chapters that are 
              really long near the beginning, these pave the way for the rest 
              of the book and form sturdy foundations for the events that follow 
              in far shorter chapters.
Have 
              you ever gone to an on-line bookshop or even the one in the physical 
              realm and not had a clue about what you want to buy?
Apart from the 'safe-bet' authors you always take a chance buying 
              something that hasn't been recommended, even the ones on the Hot 
              List can be wet, cold and soggy like a day out at Southend beach! 
              Turkeys are all too prevalent and I'm not talking about the stuffed 
              Christmas ones!
Donna Jones
The Earthborn by Paul Collins
Crime Traveller Volume 1 and 2

Infinity Plus Two edited by Keith Brooke and 
  Keith Gevers
Written by Aussie author Paul Collins, it is quiet 
              possibly the best Science Fiction that I have read in a long time 
              and that even includes the 'safe-bet' ones too.
The Longest Way Home by Robert Silverberg
Stone by Adam Roberts
Hidden Empire by Kevin J Anderson
The Other Side Of The Sky by Arthur C Clarke
Looking For Mr Nobody by Sue Rann
The Light Ages by Ian R. Macleod
Those that have shown a real aversion to the Elders 
              of Colony are banished to the lower decks and labelled in the same 
              poor light as the Earthborn. A problem to be destroyed at the soonest 
              available opportunity. A disease on the face of an enlightened and 
              superior human race, that is the essence of humanity with a seemingly 
              healthy dose of genocide.
Collins book ‘Cyberskin’ has earned him critical 
              acclaim and has been cited as making ‘Bladerunner’ look positively 
              emaciated - The Canberra Times. I will certainly be placing an order 
              for this one asap! Damn good Science Fiction from a damn good writer 
              of the genre!
Go out and get yourself a copy of this book because 
              I not only recommend it I insist that if you read only one Science 
              Fiction book in your life read ‘The Earthborn’.
Videos and DVDs
Evilution by Shaun Jeffrey
The Space Merchants by Frederick Pohl
Righteous Blood by Cliff Burns
T2 Book 3: The Future War by SM Stirling
This is the kind of Science Fiction I would recommend 
              to almost anyone. It is so accessible that you could pick this book 
              up and enjoy every page and be a Science Fiction junkie. Die-hards 
              will also like this, too. Collins has a way with characters that 
              is subtle but totally true to life. The backdrops of his homeland 
              of Australia fit so well with the civil war-torn world view, like 
              a vision of ‘Mad Max’!

CHAT 
            ABOUT THIS STORY
check out website: www.tor.com

Cowboy Feng’s Space Bar And Grille by Steven 
  Brust
Earthborn are made out to be uncivilised, brutal 
              cannibals. A disease that needs eradicating before the returning 
              voyagers can retake their homeworld.
Welkin meets an Earthborn very quickly after Colony 
              lands and soon he comes to realise that humanity may not have been 
              destroyed as the Elders would have the Skyborn believe. So ensues 
              the war over Earth and the hopeful combining of forces to create 
              a new start.
That's 
              why you come here, to find out what are turkeys and what are voluptuous, 
              gift-filled crackers! ‘The Earthborn’ is definitely one of the latter.
Books

Cities edited by Peter Crowther