
Many in the mainstream media have interpreted these revelations the
            same way: gross incompetence on the part of the government.
            Apparently, Uncle Sam cannot get a thing right these days. What the
            media has completely missed (or ignored) is how certain factions
            within government could use the Katrina catastrophe to introduce
            social changes previously unthinkable. There is a discomforting
            possibility that Americans must consider in light of the fact that
            there is no one else looking out for their best interest. It is the
            possibility that warnings were ignored and assistance was
            intentionally delayed to create a pretext for unprecedented
            government growth.
Roberts can hardly be called a conspiracy theorist. The former
            Assistant Secretary of the Treasury has recognized a certain game
            plan at work in the Katrina situation. This game plan has been used
            for centuries. Researcher Ralph Epperson elaborates:
One supporter of this contention is Paul Craig Roberts, the former
            Assistant Secretary of the Treasury. On the 5th September 2005 Alex
            Jones show, Roberts: "agreed that FEMA has deliberately withheld
            aid, and cut emergency communication lines, and automatically made
            the crisis look worse in order to empower the image of a police
            state emerging to 'save the day'" (Watson and Jones, no
            pagination). Steve Watson and Alex Jones also report:
The lesson to be learned from Katrina is fairly obvious. In the
            event of a catastrophe, we cannot depend on the government to be
            our savior. The politics of disaster are not about relief for the
            victims. They are about the acquisition of power.
In an interview with William Norman Grigg, Levine made it clear
            that this account was not fictitious:
Michael Brown is not the only one with a bull's eye on his chest.
            Former Clinton advisor Sydney Blumenthal also got in on the fun,
            placing blame squarely on the President's shoulders:
If this method were fully implemented, it would be no exaggeration
            to describe the end result as being a Soviet-style America. One of
            the government agencies that have much to gain from the execution
            of this technique is FEMA.
The lack of response on the part of the government to hurricane
            Katrina created a situation just like that described by Levine's
            CIA acquaintance. An August 31, 2005 WWLTV news report seems to
            suggest that the situation had the desired effect:
Paul D. Collins has studied suppressed history and
            the shadowy undercurrents of world political dynamics for roughly
            eleven years. In 1999, he completed his Associate of Arts and
            Science degree. He is working to complete his Bachelor's degree,
            with a major in Communications and a minor in Political Science.
            Paul has authored another book entitled The Hidden Face of
            Terrorism: The Dark Side of Social Engineering, From Antiquity to
            September 11. Published in November 2002, the book is
            available online from www.1stbooks.com, barnesandnoble.com, and also amazon.com. It can be
            purchased as an e-book (ISBN 1-4033-6798-1) or in paperback format
            (ISBN 1-4033-6799-X).He also co-authored the book, The
            Ascendancy of the Scientific Dictatorship: An Examination of
            Epistemic Autocracy, From the 19th to the 21st Century,
            which is 
            available online here.
With the proper pretext now in place, FEMA could enter the scene.
            Lieutenant-general Carl A. Strock of the Army Corps of Engineers
            informed the press that FEMA was heading up the federal response:
            "Ultimately, the corps is directed, along with 15 other agencies,
            by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 'It is FEMA who is
            really calling the shots and setting priorities here,' General
            Strock said" (Revkin, no pagination).
Was Keith merely being an alarmist when he penned these words? In
            his book The Triangle of Death, former DEA agent Michael
            Levine records a conversation he had with a CIA agent that
            reinforces Jim Keith's contention:
In the wake of hurricane Katrina,
            many within the government are ducking for cover as the blame game
            begins. One individual who has been targeted is Michael Brown, the
            director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The Associated
            Press reported the following:
Indeed, FEMA is calling all the shots in New Orleans. In the event
            of a larger crisis, the agency's powers could be further augmented
            by Executive Order 11051. This Executive Order would allow FEMA to
            enact other Executive Orders, extending the organization's control
            over numerous state and federal functions. This control would
            overarch education, welfare, and health services (Executive Order
            11051, no pagination). In addition, FEMA would wield substantial
            authority over America's financial institutions. The agency would
            regulate wages, credit, salaries, and the flow of capital
            (Executive Order 11051, no pagination). The nation's means of
            production and distribution would also be commandeered (no
            pagination). In short, the infrastructure of the United States
            would be effectively controlled by one omnipotent governmental
            entity. FEMA is a dictator's wet dream, and with Katrina it is
            starting to be given teeth.
Michael Brown may become a sacrificial lamb. However, the Agency he
            heads, FEMA, has much to gain from the Katrina catastrophe. The
            hurricane disaster may lead to calls for increasing FEMA's budget
            and power. In a hopes of silencing his critics, the President may
            favor such a move. America would then fall back to sleep, believing
            FEMA had its back covered in the event of another disaster.
            However, several researchers have recognized that FEMA has little
            to do with emergency relief. One such individual was deceased
            researcher Jim Keith. In his book, Black Helicopters Over America, Keith noted the
            following concerning FEMA: