
In the July 16 article, Collins was reported as saying, among				other things, that it is “far too early” for definitive closure on				the issue of women’s ordination.
Ratzinger wrote, “It was also decided to send to the experts				an article printed in the July 16, 1999, issue of the National Catholic				Reporter. … Because comments that he reportedly made … may put				his alleged adherence to magisterial teaching in question.”
By JOHN L. ALLEN JR. NCR StaffRome
In a statement to news organizations, Collins gave two reasons for				his resignation.
Collins’ said his resignation is designed in part to save his				religious superiors from being “caught in the middle.”
The e-mail address for John L. Allen Jr. is				jallen@natcath.org. The complete text of Collins’				announcement, along with the Ratzinger letter, may be found on the NCR Web site				at www.natcath.com/NCR_Online/documents/index.htm
Collins was to make the announcement in Australia March 10, as				NCR went to press.  He said, however, that he has no intention of				exiting the Catholic church. “I am just changing my status in the				family,” he said.
National Catholic Reporter, March 16, 2001				[corrected March 30, 2001]
Collins said his religious superior in the Missionaries of the				Sacred Heart, Fr. Michael Curran, had been summoned to a meeting Dec. 14 with				officials of the Vatican congregation. Collins said officials had asked Curran				to explain why Collins had not responded to a letter from the congregation,				dated April 10, 1999, posing questions on three issues. In response, Collins				said, Curran passed on to officials a copy of an interview Collins had done				with an Australian theological journal, saying it “would go a long way to				answering” these questions.
Collins also cited Vatican support for so-called “new				movements” such as Opus Dei, the Neocatechumenate and the Legionaries of				Christ, which he called “theologically reactionary.”
Curran told NCR he did not wish to add anything to				Collins’ account.
The second reason for his decision, Collins said, is the				investigation of his work by the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith,				which he said is “moving toward an escalation.”
According to Collins, officials asked Curran about statements				Collins had made to the press as reported by the National Catholic				Reporter, and published in its July 16, 1999, issue.
Collins was also accused of putting forth a “more than				nebulous” concept of church tradition and of wrongfully holding the view				that a teaching, to be considered church doctrine, must be approved through the				sensus fidelium -- the sense of the people -- as well as by bishops and				theologians.
Collins asserted that the thrust of much recent Vatican policy				runs counter to the vision of the Second Vatican Council (1962-65). He cited				the 1998 papal document Ad Tuendam Fidem, expanding the range of				teachings from which Catholics may not dissent, and Dominus Iesus, a				September 2000 document reasserting the superiority of Catholicism over other				religions and Christian churches.
Collins has edited a new book titled From Inquisition to				Freedom, containing interviews with Oblate Fr. Tissa Balasuriya, Fr. Hans				Küng, Fr. Charles Curran, Lavinia Byrne, [School Sister of Notre				Dame] Sr. Jeannine Gramick, Salvatorian Fr. Robert Nugent, and himself,				describing their experiences with the doctrinal congregation. All have been				subjects of Vatican investigations.
Four days after the meeting, Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, the				pope’s doctrinal czar, wrote Curran to say that the NCR article				cast fresh doubt on Collins’ “alleged adherence to magisterial				teaching.” A copy of Ratzinger’s letter was obtained by				NCR.
The book will be available in Australia in March and in New York				and London this fall. Collins said its tone is “respectful and				moderate.” At the same time, he said, “I don’t think it will win				friends and influence people in Rome.”
Australian church historian and Sacred Heart Fr. Paul Collins,				under Vatican investigation since 1998 for his views on the papacy and other				matters, has announced plans to leave the Catholic priesthood.
When its investigation began in 1998, the Vatican charged that				Collins:
The first was that he could no longer play a professional role in				the church at a time when “many in ecclesiastical leadership … are				moving in an increasingly sectarian direction.” Vatican statements and				policies during the current pontificate, he said, are “watering down the				catholicity of the church and even unconsciously neglecting elements of its				teaching.”