
Paul Collins' web site
Paul Collins - a profile
Collins' recent output has been mostly for children. Certainly the
success of his YA anthology, Dream Weavers, and possibly its
sequel, Fantastic Worlds, has encouraged him to write and edit
for younger readers. His latest books, The Earthborn, a young
adult science fiction novel, has sold to TOR in the States, and his
100,000 word fantasy novel, Dragonlinks, has sold to Penguin
Australia. Both are due in 2002.
In 1978, Collins moved from magazine to book publishing, initially
with the Worlds original anthology series, but later with a
series of original Australian science fiction and fantasy novels. In
1981 Collins was joined by Rowena Cory who painted many of the covers
for their books, and Cory and Collins went on to publish fourteen
Australian science fiction and fantasy novels by  authors such as Wynne
Whiteford, A. Bertram Chandler, Jack Wodhams, Keith Taylor, Russell
Blackford and David Lake. With the posthumous  publication of Chandler's
novel The Wild Ones, however, Collins decided that publishing
was interfering with his own writing and he closed the business.
Collins returned to editing in 1994 to compile Metaworlds,
an anthology of Australia's best recent science fiction, for Penguin
Books. This was followed by Strange Fruit, an anthology of dark
fantasy tales with a literary bent.  About this time Collins began to
develop an interest in young adult literature, in terms of both his
writing and editing. Angus and Robertson published his children's
fantasy novel The Wizard's Torment, which was likened by Sophie
Masson (Reading Time, May 1996) to the classic fantasies The Worm
Ourobouros and The Well at the World's End. It has since
been selected by the New South Wales Department of School Education for
their Bookshelf List, and extracts were published in School Magazine.
Meanwhile, Collins compiled the young adult anthology Dream
Weavers for Penguin, the first original Australian heroic fantasy
anthology ever. This was followed by a similar book called Fantastic
Worlds and the Shivers series of children's horror novels from
HarperCollins. Hodder published Paul's next anthology, Tales from
the Wasteland in 2000. Collins has also written under the name
Marilyn Fate and he and Sean McMullen have both used the pseudonym Roger
Wilcox.
Paul Collins
(1954- ) was born in England, raised in New Zealand and
moved to Australia in 1972. His first published work was the Western
novel Hot Lead-Cold Sweat (1975). That same year, in order to support
himself so that he could write, Collins launched Void magazine, the
first professional science fiction magazine Australia had seen since the
demise of the joint Australian and British production Vision Of
Tomorrow. Collins edited and published five issues of Void
between August 1975 and March 1977, and while it only covered costs, the
magazine was instrumental in encouraging lapsed writers Wynne Whiteford
and Jack Wodhams to take up writing again, as well as encouraging a new
generation of Australian science fiction writers and readers.
Australia is not the science fiction capital of the world; in fact
we are probably not even on the map. This unfortunate fact would change
if we could produce more writers like Paul Collins.  Michael Hanrahan,
Australian Book Review.
Paul's own web site is at
www.metropolisink.com/pcollins
Paul and partner Meredith Costain have written eighteen books on
countries, all of which have sold to American publisher Chelsea. Paul's
eight books on martial arts also sold into America.
He left the adult arena on a high: his story with Rick Kennett,
The Willcroft Inheritance, appeared in Charles Grant's
Gothic Ghosts, TOR, 1997 and has been picked up by Ellen Datlow
and Terri Windling for their Recommended Reading List Year's Best. Other
recent stories appeared in Australian Short Stories and the
award-winning Dreaming Down-under.
He sold his first professional fantasy story in 1977 to the United
States magazine Weirdbook and by 1980 he had sold another eleven stories
to magazines and books in Australia and overseas. Collins has a black
belt in both taekwondo and jujitsu, experience he puts to good use in
his recent, fast-paced cyber-oriented tales, which have culminated in
the cyberpunk novel Cyberskin. The latter has been published by
clocktowerfiction.com
(USA), Hybrid Publishers (Australia) and Heyne Verlag (Germany).His
stories have sold to a wide variety of mainstream and genre magazines.
The best of his work has been collected in The Government in
Exile, published by Melbourne's Sumeria Press in 1994. A later
collection, Stalking Midnight, has been published http://www.cosmos.com in both POD and e-book.
Paul's recent work involves compiling seven books called Book People -
Meet Australia's favourite children's authors and illustrators.
Macmillan will release these early 2002. He and Meredith Costain also
compile and edit the science fiction series Spinouts. To date there have
been Spinouts Silver and Bronze, with Sapphire in the making. They have
also put together a series called Thrillogy, for Pearson Education.
Authors included are, among others, Richard Harland, Christine Harris,
Glyn Parry, Jackie French, Jenny Pausacker, John Heffernan, Allan
Baillie, Justin D'Ath and Robert Hood. Illustrators include Shaun Tan,
Terry Denton, Craig Smith and Sally Rippin.
To date, Paul has published over twenty chapter books, around thirty
non-fiction hardcovers for the education market, eleven anthologies, two
collections of his own stories, edited the MUP Encyclopaedia of
Australian Science Fiction and Fantasy, over 140 short stories and
a handful of trade books.
Collins pioneered the publishing of adult heroic fantasy in Australia
and did much to raise the profile of Australian genre writing. Many of
the books and stories he published have been republished overseas.
Paul also teaches writing in schools and has an increasing demand on
his time for school visits. He participates in the Nestle Writer Around
Australia competition. A student from Paul's writing workshop Master
class, Jack Fox, was the year 2000 Grade Six National Nestle winner
(there were over 28,000 short story entries for Grades 5 and 6).