
On December 6, 2003, Clinton was charged with one
felony count of cocaine possession and a misdemeanor count of possessing drug paraphernalia in
Tallahassee, Florida.[2] Just two weeks
later, he made his first public appearance since the arrest, jamming onstage with the rock band Phish in Miami. On August 11,
2004, he pleaded no contest to two misdemeanor
drug-paraphernalia charges, while the felony charge was dropped.
Funkadelic's biggest recording was 1978's "One Nation Under a Groove," which Harris of Pulse! described as "a fiercely funky utopian dream that became the rallying call" for P. Funk's acolytes. By this time Clinton had realized that he could not only get more work done, but get more music out by creating new groups under the Parliament-Funkadelic umbrella. Projects such as Bootsy's Rubber Band, the Brides of Funkenstein, Parlet, and many others--mostly comprised of P. Funk's regular musicians and singers in various combinations--released an avalanche of output in the late 1970s and early 1980s. By 1980, however, a series of legal entanglements had begun to hamper Clinton; meanwhile, Parliament and Funkadelic started to lose steam as electronically produced techno-funk, disco, and hip hop loomed large on the R&B horizon.
The evolution of funk--the hard-edged, syncopated dance music that derived from soul in the early 1960s and paved the way for the emergence of hip hop in the late 1970s--owes a profound debt to George Clinton. With the barnstorming P. Funk family of musicians, including but not limited to Parliament, Funkadelic, and the P. Funk All-Stars, Clinton fashioned a celebratory fusion of soul, psychedelic rock, performance art absurdity, and revolutionary politics without which most of the rap and much of the alternative rock that followed are virtually unimaginable.
In 1989, Clinton released The Cinderella
Theory on Paisley Park, Prince's record label. This was followed by Hey Man,
Smell My Finger. Clinton then signed with Sony 550 and released T.A.P.O.A.F.O.M. (The Awesome Power Of A Fully Operational Mothership) in 1996, having reunited with several old members of Parliament and Funkadelic.
After moving to the Casablanca label, Parliament proceeded to dominate the R&B charts with jams like "Tear the Roof Off the Sucker (Give Up the Funk)," "Do That Stuff," and "Flash Light." With their cast of imaginary characters--StarChild, Sir Nose D'Voidoffunk, Dr. Funkenstein--science fiction regalia, and raunchy, playful patter, Parliament dispensed with the well-groomed and hyper-stylized conventions of black performance, introducing soul music to the concept of anarchy.
Life's Work
Personal Information

After several record company and personnel changes--during which time Clinton worked as a staff songwriter for Jobete Music and Motown Records--the Parliaments achieved a hit with their 1966 single "I Wanna Testify." By then Clinton had included in his musical lineup a number of musicians who would figure prominently in subsequent P. Funk operations, among them guitarist Eddie Hazel and bassist Billy Nelson. Clinton briefly lost legal rights to the Parliaments name in the late 1960s, so he came up with a new name--and a new sound.
Hairdresser at Uptown Tonsorial Parlor, Plainfield, NJ, c. 1955-67. Formed vocal group the Parliaments, Newark, NJ, 1955; signed to Hull Records and released "Poor Willie" and "Party Boys," 1958; signed to Flipp label and recorded "Lonely Island" and "Cry," 1959; worked as staff songwriter for Jobete Music and Motown, 1962-63; cofounded Geo-Si-Mik production team, 1963; signed to Revilot label and released single "I Wanna Testify," 1966; formed group Funkadelic, 1968; signed to Westbound label and released debut, Funkadelic, 1969; formed Parliament; signed to Invictus label and released debut, Osmium, 1970; Parliament signed to Casablanca label and released Up for the Down Stroke, 1974; Funkadelic signed to Warner Bros. and released Hardcore Jollies, 1976; oversaw/produced Bootsy's Rubber Band, the Brides of Funkenstein, Parlet, Zapp, the Horny Horns, and others, 1970s; recorded for Capitol Records as solo artist, 1982-87; formed P. Funk All-Stars, 1983; signed to Paisley Park Records as solo artist and released The Cinderella Theory, 1989; produced artists Red Hot Chili Peppers and others, 1980s--; appeared on recordings by William "Bootsy" Collins, Bernie Worrell, Eddie Hazel, Dolby's Cube, Prince, Digital Underground, Ice Cube, and many others, 1970s--; appeared with Red Hot Chili Peppers and P. Funk All-Stars on Grammy Awards presentation, 1993; appeared in films House Party, 1989, and Graffiti Bridge, 1990.
Hallucinogenic drugs and the general atmosphere of political and social foment added to this heady musical brew, his new purveyors of which Clinton dubbed Funkadelic. With the addition of keyboardist Bernie Worrell--who would prove to be one of P. Funk's musical architects--the group's distinctive sound was complete. They signed with Westbound Records and released their eponymous debut in 1969. The following year, having regained the rights to his old group's name, Clinton signed the streamlined Parliament to Invictus Records.
Parliament, meanwhile, added horns and charismatic bassist William "Bootsy" Collins--inherited from funk forebear James Brown's band--and became the quintessential party-funkers of the 1970s. "Getting down on the one," the first beat of a measure and the rhythmic jumping-off point for funk's subversive syncopations, became one of its many compelling slogans. The "P" in the "P. Funk" moniker stood for pure, undiluted--like the drugs that fueled their frenetic pace of recording and touring.
Priority Records at last managed to secure the rights to the discontinued Warner Bros. Funkadelic catalog, issuing long-awaited CDs of One Nation and other classics. Clinton and the P. Funk mob joined the Chili Peppers for a riotous performance at the Grammy Awards presentation; meanwhile, Clinton's next solo project, Hey Man ... Smell My Finger, appeared after a long delay.
Platinum records for Parliament's Chocolate City and Mothership Connection and for Funkadelic's One Nation Under a Groove.
Though the two projects at first shared a hard blues-funk sound and sociological concerns, they formed distinct identities over the next few years. Funkadelic refined its acid-drenched proto-heavy metal on albums like Free Your Mind and Your Ass Will Follow, the seminal Maggot Brain, and Cosmic Slop, relying on lengthy guitar jams and spooky keyboards to accommodate its often despairing reports of injustice at home and abroad. After moving to Warner Bros. in the mid-1970s, the band lightened up somewhat but retained its mighty guitar attack.

At the same time, Clinton harbored ambitions beyond the marriage of hard rock and funk; "concept" albums like the Beatles' landmark Sgt. Pepper and The Who's rock opera Tommy had laid the groundwork for long-format works in the pop idiom. Clinton engineered the first known R&B concept records, in which the all-powerful Funk conquers evil and indifference in outer space, under the ocean, and even in Washington, D.C. In fact, both Funkadelic and Parliament were vitally concerned with liberation: of the head, the heart, and, most of all, the "booty." And however comical and outrageous the process, the importance of P. Funk's redemptive message and communal vibe can scarcely be overestimated.
Career
Beginning in the early 1980's, Clinton recorded several nominal "solo" albums, although all of
these records featured contributions from P-Funk's core musicians. The primary reason for recording under his own name was legal
difficulties, due to the complex copyright and trademark issues surrounding the name "Parliament" (primarily) and
Polygram's purchase of his former label (as part of Parliament), Casablanca Records. In 1982, Clinton signed to Capitol Records as a solo artist and as the P.Funk All-Stars, releasing Computer Games that same year. "Loopzilla" hit the Top 20
R&B charts, followed by "Atomic Dog," which
reached #1 R&B, but peaked at #101 on the pop chart. In the next four years, Clinton
released three more studio albums (You Shouldn't-Nuf Bit Fish, Some
of My Best Jokes Are Friends and R&B Skeletons in the Closet) as well as a live album, Mothership Connection
(Live from the Summit, Houston, Texas) and charting three singles in the R&B Top 30, "Nubian
Nut," "Last Dance," and "Do Fries Go with that
Shake." This period of Clinton's career was marred by multiple legal problems (resulting in financial difficulties) due to
complex royalty and copyright issues. In 1985 he was recruited by the Red Hot Chili Peppers to produce their album Freaky Styley,
because the bandmembers were huge fans of George Clinton and Funk in general. Though Clinton's
popularity had waned by the mid 1980s, he experienced something of a resurgence in the early 1990s, as many rappers cited him as
an influence and began sampling his songs. Alongside James Brown, George Clinton is considered to be one of the most sampled musicians ever.
With the explosion of hard blues and psychedelic rock in the late 1960s, Clinton decided to move with the times. The Parliaments' first tour, he averred in Rolling Stone, necessitated sharing not only the bill, but amplifiers with rockers the Vanilla Fudge. The "extremely loud" gear gave him an idea; he introduced his bandmates to cutting-edge records by the Jimi Hendrix Experience, Cream, and the psychedelic soul troupe Sly and the Family Stone's debut. "I said 'Let me stop this Motown, stop this doo-wop and pretty shit and let me get something else,'" he recollected to Pulse! writer Carter Harris. "If the blues is working, then the speeded-up blues will work, the funky blues, the one with the little light groove to it, that would work."
The prodigious output of Clinton's clan rapidly made him the era's most sampled artist--surpassing even Godfather of Soul James Brown. Rather than begrudge rappers access to the P. Funk catalog, however, he facilitated it by releasing Sample Some of Disc--Sample Some of D.A.T., intended as the first in a series of CDs providing sample-ready slices from the vaults, along with simple permission request forms. "Everybody else is making money off us now," he reasoned in Request, "so we just say, 'forget that, we'll make a record with all those typical grooves in it, and they can sample them.'" More than profits were at stake, though; Clinton sensed early on that rap was the future of the P. "Hip hop has the same energy, the same kind of rowdy vibe as funk," he insisted in Pulse!
Born George Edward Clinton, July 22, 1941, in Kannapolis, NC; son of Julia Keaton; children: Tracey, Shawn (sons).

Further Reading
Clinton--who planned a doo-wop reunion with the original Parliaments--continued to tour with the P. Funk All-Stars, appearing at the traveling alternative music fest Lollapalooza '94 and in concert throughout the United States. Celebrated filmmakers the Hudlin brothers announced plans for a Mothership Connection feature film. And the sounds of P. Funk, if not the new work of their inventor, continued to rule the airwaves via samples on rap records.
Signing with the Paisley Park label of longtime admirer and 1980s R&B superhero Prince, Clinton released 1989's ill-fated The Cinderella Theory. Later he lamented to Request' s Bill Forman, "If I could have put that album out the way I first did it--before we remixed it and remixed it and buffed it to shinyism--my first mixes were closer to what people know us to sound and feel like. But the whole industry got into a remix situation. They remix the record before they put the record out."
singer; songwriter; bandleader; producer

Clinton allows audience members to tape his live performances for private, non-commercial use only.[1]
Born in Kannapolis, North Carolina, the eldest of nine children, Clinton had made his way to Newark, New Jersey, by his early teens. He worked in the Uptown Tonsorial Parlor barber shop and formed a vocal group, the Parliaments, which plied the street corner harmony style known as doo-wop. "I mean, I would go downtown on Sundays and go onto the back streets and just say the name out loud, just to hear myself say it," he told Pulse! of the days before the group's formation. In a Down Beat interview Clinton attributed his ambition to his astrological sign, noting, "I was a little Leo. If I couldn't have a baseball team I wanted a singing group. You know, that was our only [way] ... out of the ghetto ... if you could sing, dance, or some shit." Soon the group arranged gigs at dances and made its first recording at a coin-operated recording booth.
By the early 1990s, however, P. Funk had re-emerged as a kind of stylistic Holy Grail for young musicians of widely divergent stripes. Hip-hoppers De La Soul sampled a Funkadelic hit for one of their early smashes, funk-rappers Digital Underground looped "Flash Light" and other Parliament hits on their debut and then persuaded Clinton to appear on their sophomore effort and pronounce them Sons of the P, and Snoop Doggy Dogg, Dr. Dre, Ice Cube, Public Enemy, and countless other rhymesmiths leaned on both the sound and lore of P. Funk. At the same time, funk-rockers like the Chili Peppers, Living Colour, Faith No More, Primus, and Big Chief extolled the energy and inventiveness of Parliament-Funkadelic. As the Peppers' influential bassist Flea told Guitar Player, "Funkadelic is my favorite band. Rock, funk whatever you want to call it, they were one of the greatest."
In the 1990s, Clinton appeared in films such as Graffiti Bridge (1990), Good
Burger (1997) and PCU (1994). Most recently he appeared as the voice of The Funktipus, the DJ of the Funk
radio station Bounce FM in the 2004 video game, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, in which his song Loopzilla also appeared.
Rapper Dr. Dre sampled most of his beats to create his
G-Funk music era. He's also worked with Tupac Shakur on the
song "Can't c me" from the album All Eyez On Me, Outkast
on the song "Synthesizer" from the album Aquemini, Redman on
the song "J.U.M.P." from the album Malpractice (album)
Works
After ruling the R&B charts in the 1970s, Clinton weathered legal difficulties and changing tastes to re-emerge in the 1990s as one of rap's deities and funk-rock's king. And though his own 1993 solo album sold modestly, his music--albeit in sampled form--could be found all over the charts, on songs by rappers Ice Cube, Dr. Dre, Warren G., and others. Aside from its obvious appeal to the "booty," funk--particularly the ecstatic workouts of the P. Funk gang--presents an optimistic, communal spirit for which the gangsta-rap-saturated nineties hunger desperately. As Clinton defined it to Rolling Stone, funk is "anything it [needs] to be to save your life. "
Indeed, the gangsta rappers who outran the competition in the 1990s consistently turned to Clinton. In Dr. Dre's video "Let Me Ride," the rapper's posse--grooving to a Mothership Connection sample--gathers, like a dutiful congregation, at a P. Funk concert, while Clinton himself guested along with Bootsy Collins on Ice Cube's Parliament tribute "Bop Gun." In a cultural era beset by despair, Clinton's vision remained an oasis of hope and renewal. Perhaps, as he noted in Pulse!, we could still unite as one nation under a groove: "I'm gonna believe that even when it ain't happening. 'Cause I know it's possible to happen, and to me, reality is a belief, and if you give energy to the things that you believe, that's what makes 'em possible."
Clinton signed as a solo artist with Capitol Records and in 1982 scored a huge hit with the kinetic single "Atomic Dog." Various other solo recordings and gatherings of the "P. Funk All-Stars" followed, as well as a collaboration with British synthesizer whiz Thomas Dolby and work as a producer, notably for P. Funk lovers the Red Hot Chili Peppers. Yet Clinton was still mired in legal difficulties, particularly over the Funkadelic catalog, which went out of print as compact discs overtook vinyl; by 1985 he was forced to declare bankruptcy.
Albums released under the name "George Clinton."

Books
Featuring a bevy of rap's leading lights on the single "Paint the White House Black" and several P. Funk alumni and guest production by Prince--who told Vibe, "They should be giving that man a government grant for being that funky"--the album was hailed by critics as a strong return to form. Still, Hey Man sold modestly; as numerous commentators reflected, black radio was largely disinclined to support artists associated with past glories, no matter how influential. As if to add insult to injury, Prince's Paisley Park folded shortly after the album's release. Clinton subsequently signed to NPG/Bellmark, which rose from the ashes of Paisley Park.
Selective Discography
"You're Thinking Right" - the theme song for The Tracey Ullman Show, was
written by Clinton.
He was born in Kannapolis, North Carolina, grew up in Plainfield, New Jersey, and currently resides in Tallahassee, Florida. In Plainfield, he ran a barber salon, where he straightened hair, and soon
formed a doo wop group, inspired by Frankie Lymon & the
Teenagers, called The Parliaments. Despite initial commercial failures, The
Parliaments eventually found success under the names Parliament and Funkadelic in the seventies (see also P-Funk). This article focuses on
Clinton's solo efforts after 1981.
Awards
At the heart of it all was the wizard himself, climbing out of the Mothership to lead the crowd in invocations that could come from everywhere: scripture, James Brown records, even dirty limericks. Neither an instrumentalist nor a particularly virtuosic singer, Clinton nonetheless provided the intellectual and organizational spark at the heart of P. Funk's sonic orgy. "The one talent I had," he explained to Rolling Stone, "was the ability to keep people together. I knew how to keep personalities in place, how to use them. That is still the most important thing I do in P-Funk. I can get anything out of anybody."
George Clinton (born July 22, 1941) is an
American musician, widely considered one of the
forefathers of funk. He was the mastermind of the bands
Parliament and Funkadelic during the
1970s and early 1980s, and was a solo funk artist as of
1981. He has been hailed as "The Prime Minister of Funk" as the leader of Parliament, as well as
"The King of Interplanetary Funk".
"I was trying to put blacks in places you wouldn't expect to see 'em," Clinton explained to Harris of Pulse! "I just knew that a nigger on a spaceship would look pretty strange, especially if he looks like he's on a Cadillac." Thus was born the spaceship prop from Parliament's Mothership Connection Tour. Such concerts--described in Vibe by guitarist Vernon Reid, founder of rock band Living Colour, as resembling "some sort of ritual"--have become the stuff of legend. Parliament spawned scores of imitators, many of whom they teased on their elaborately cartooned album covers.