
Clinton began a solo career in 1982 and had such hits as Atomic Dog and Do Fries Go with That Shake. For a time, he was on Prince's Paisley Park label. His most recent album was 1996's T.A.P.O.A.F.O.M. — The Awesome Power of a Fully Operational Mothership.
Clinton, who has overcome financial problems and drug arrests, has spent two decades battling various record labels and publishing companies over ownership of his music.
Clinton made his first records in the mid-1950s, and in 1967 had a breakthrough hit, (I Wanna) Testify, with The Parliaments, a quintet he'd formed in a New Jersey barbershop. But Clinton realized that if they wanted to appeal to the youth, they had to get funky.
And now he's ready to satisfy fans of all ages.
Parliamentary procedures
"I've seen what the Grateful Dead has done, and this is a chance to show the world what funk is about," says Clinton, who encourages audiotaping of his concerts.
The music of both groups was played at legendary three-hour-plus concerts, during which the flying-saucer-like Mothership would land and Clinton would emerge.
Matching tuxedos were out. Wild hair, raggedy jeans, leather, furs, bed sheets and even diapers were in. They embedded the harmonies in screaming guitars, strutting horns and pulsating rhythms influenced by Jimi Hendrix and Sly Stone.
September concerts at the Greek Theater in Los Angeles and the Apollo in New York marked Clinton's anniversary, and a more extensive tour begins in November. Clinton will lead the University of Southern California Trojan Marching Band at halftime Nov. 19, when the school plays Fresno State. Also on tap: the Uncut Funk Series, live CDs and DVDs from concerts of the past 30 years.
Band members became characters such as Dr. Funkenstein (Clinton), Bootsy (bassist William Collins), Star Child (guitarist Gary Shider) and Woo Warrior (keyboardist Bernie Worrell). Nobody cared that they were, as Clinton puts it, "wrecked out of our minds."
And while the label is looking forward, Parliament-Funkadelic: One Nation Under a Groove, an hourlong documentary that began airing this month on the PBS Independent Lens series, recounts the musical collective's colorful history.
Clinton, 65, who is celebrating 50 years in the business, became an icon in the '70s and '80s with Parliament-Funkadelic, and the hip-hop generation has made the product of those aggregations some of the most sampled music in history. Now he and the P-Funk All Stars are back with How Late Do UHave 2BB4UR Absent?, his first new album in nearly a decade. (Related glossary: Learn to speak Funkadelic)
"They are all our clones," Clinton says of his legion of rap adherents. "Funk is the DNA of hip-hop."
By the mid-'70s, Clinton had regained the Parliament name (without the "s"), and a second supergroup, mostly the same musicians, was born. They had a sci-fi-influenced party vibe, with such hits as Tear the Roof Off the Sucker (Give Up the Funk), Star Child (Mothership Connection) and Flashlight.
The Parliaments' name was tied up in litigation, so the singers and backup band became Funkadelic. Its rump-shaking, political innuendo-laced offerings (Free Your Mind and Your Ass Will Follow, America Eats Its Young, Maggot Brain) were embraced by the youth of the '70s.
And those clones have been grateful. Although his bands have never won any Grammys, they've performed twice on the show in the past four years, thanks to the Red Hot Chili Peppers and Outkast.
"I can't wait to grow this P-Funk all over again. I've got the old roots and the new branches. It's the best of all worlds."
"There is a thing in the industry called planned obsolescence," Clinton says, laughing. "They are always looking for what's new. We just had to take some time off, and now we are new again."
The catalog is worth a fortune, considering it has fueled hip-hop hits for everyone from Dr. Dre to Outkast. Because of the legal wrangling, Clinton didn't always get paid for the samples, but he saw the silver lining there and embraced it. Hip-hop stars kept funk alive during the '90s, and Clinton released a series of compilations specifically for DJs and producers.
New projects abound
The latest album is the first release on his new label, The C Kunspyruhzy, on which he plans to put out a variety of projects from the P-Funk family. The album is getting scant airplay, but it's selling through "guerrilla marketing," which includes in-store signings at traditional venues as well as unusual places such as salons and gentlemen's clubs. The album also is available through newfunktimes.com and georgeclinton.com.