
Sullivan-Clinton 2005
For the Main Events & Sites of the Sullivan/Clinton saga:
After five days in April and four weeks in September, almost all of Iroquoia was reduced to shattered hearths and fields of fire. According to Sullivan’s Official Report, the army burned 40 towns and their surrounding fields; consuming at least 160,000 bushels of corn, “with a vast quantity of vegetables of every kind.” A study (1969) by Anthony Wallace concluded that the Campaign destroyed 500 dwellings and nearly 1 million bushels of corn. Drawing on extensive records, a history (1978) by Allan Eckert estimated at least 50 towns and nearly 1,200 houses were burned. All this before the worst winter in recorded memory.
Sullivan/Clinton is an amazing journey. It's not for the faint of heart, nor the stubborn of mind. It's a major event in our history that's been way off the radar screen for far too long. More road signs than any NY event, yet not in our school books. But just as America undergoes historic changes, the lessons of Sullivan/ Clinton are more relevant than ever.  So, read on below. Browse our 14 great photo GALLERIES. Enjoy the A/V Images & VIDEO. Search through the eye-popping info in our TEXTS. Jump into our MAP. And enter your own COMMENTS! Come learn - at your own pace. Do your Research here. Then come back again for more, as we continually update this living website...
Exhibit @ the American Indian Community House (NY) -- AICH
Speaking appearance at the  Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian (NY)  -- NATIVE RESPONSE TO HISTORY | The Sullivan - Clinton Campaign: Then and Now.  Historian Robert Spiegelman and G. Peter Jemison (Seneca), Director of Ganondagan, NYS Historic Site,  re-examine the Sullivan- Clinton Campaign. (Click image for more...)
Joe Heath
Counsel to the Onondaga Nation
Spring 2005
The Sullivan-Clinton Campaign was the largest expedition ever before mounted against native North Americans.  It targeted the Iroquois Six Nations Confederacy:  specifically, the Seneca, Cayuga and Onondaga nations. Indeed, the Fall of Iroquoia is forever entwined with the Birth of the American Republic.
***
While these figures vary, all show an earth-shaking defeat for America’s native peoples that cannot truly be expressed in numbers; one that still lingers today - often hidden in plain sight or deep in people's souls. Against this background, a hard-won foothold in NY and Rebirth of Iroquoia have been well underway...
A Great One Has Fallen...  For John Mohawk, Who Adorned the Earth
Appointed to Speakership by NY Council for The Humanities
Sullivan/Clinton & Westward Expansion go statewide!

Next: A 10 Month Countdown
To the Indigenous Rights Redux...
The year was 1779. In the middle of the American Revolution, George Washington ordered two Generals, John Sullivan and James Clinton, and more than 6,200 men – roughly 25% of the entire rebel army – to clear-cut and burn these resisting or then neutral Iroquois nations from one of Earth’s most fertile regions.  They should “not merely be overrun," Washington insisted, “but destroyed.” And England, for its part, couldn't and/or wouldn't send forces enough to defend its Indian allies' homelands against the Sullivan-Clinton Campaign.
Please Reach Out! Donate for New Orleans victims via  Acorn and AFSC!
Clearly, NY's taking of millions of acres of Haudenosaunee land in 1788 was based upon the devastation of the Van Schaick April 1779 raid on Onondaga and the September Sullivan/Clinton scorched earth raids on the Cayuga and Seneca villages. New York exploited the fact that many Haudenosaunee people and some Chiefs had fled their homelands to live near the British "protection" near Ft. Niagara.  The state went between the two groups and played one off against each other and they further exploited the hunger that the raid had caused.
So, keep scrolling down. You'll quickly get the full picture, from Then to Now!
Winner of the Sullivan/Clinton Essay Competition! -- CVHS
For a "Who's Who" of the Sullivan/Clinton saga:
Welcome to the "Website of the Month"! -- HNN & On This Date...
UN Delays Indigenous Rights Declaration
But the 30-year effort continues...