
Clinton closed the P-Funk umbrella in the early '80s, 
but continued to give up the funk under his own name. 
Computer Games' title gave the nod to the burgeoning 
wave of techno-funk that was beginning to overtake almost 
every other form of dance music; rather than reject the new 
technology, he adapted it here in his own unique way, 
resulting in the ace hit single, "Atomic Dog." You 
Shouldn't-Nuf Bit Fish's title cut refers to the 
splitting of the atom — a scientific fish that 
shouldn't have bit, leading mankind into the terrifying age 
of nukes. The rest of the record is more lighthearted and 
dance-oriented and, like all of Clinton's records, boasts 
an all-star cast of funkateers, here including former 
Parliament vocalist Phillippe Wynne.
While Clinton really didn't distinguish himself as a 
great player or singer, his ideas (both verbal and musical) 
have always been audacious, uninhibited and ahead of their 
time. As the '70s went on, Funkadelic got deeper and 
deeper. The classic One Nation Under a Groove (1978) 
remains a touchstone for many musical cultures. In the 
meantime, Parliament got sillier and sillier, putting out 
albums replete with high voices and squiggly sounds. Still, 
P-Funk (as the whole shebang came to be known) hits — 
monsters like "Tear the Roof off the Sucker" (now an 
essential hip-hop sample) and "Flash Light" — are 
simply unstoppable.
The Cinderella Theory's "Why Should I Dog U Out?" 
inverts Clinton's influence on Prince with falsetto vocals 
and crisp one-chord guitar action, but the whimsical lyrics 
(and interpolation of "How Much Is That Doggie in the 
Window?") are strictly George's. Otherwise, the album is a 
bit plain, making a few good ideas go a long way, and 
relying heavily on Public Enemy's Flavor Flav and Chuck D 
for the music-analyzing "Tweakin'," bits of which found 
their way to Smell My Finger's "Paint the White 
House Black."
Numerous members of the huge Parliament/Funkadelic crew 
have also wielded enormous influence. Having reinvented 
funk bass playing for James Brown in the late '60s, Bootsy 
Collins did it again for Clinton, and without keyboardist 
Bernie Worrell the lexicon of synth bass licks would be 
substantially thinner.
The only area where the 1940-born (in North Carolina) 
titan has slowed way down is in the record-making 
department. Signing to Prince's ill-fated Paisley Park 
label added only two new albums to his discography (which 
had stalled out with the end of his Capitol deal in the mid-
'80s; Atomic is a cassette of remixes). The 
Cinderella Theory and Hey Man...Smell My Finger 
are similar in that they both find room for enormous 
rosters of celebrity vocalists (given more to do than 
simply tributary shoutouts) and manage to preserve 
Clinton's brightly hued personality and rhythmic primacy in 
comfortably modern settings. That said, the first is 
appreciably more self-conscious in its attempt to reassert 
relevance to the R&B mainstream, while the follow-up 
shows Clinton's growing ease in and around hip-hop. (He 
even does the most conventional thing imaginable: sample 
old P-Funk jams!)
Clinton's second Paisley Park album is stronger fun, 
boasting the epic "White House," the chanted anthem "Rhythm 
and Rhyme" and the Rodney King-defending "Martial Law." (It 
also has "If True Love," a soggy soul ballad co-written and 
sung by Clinton's son Trey Lewd, and "The Big Pump," a 
dopey club collaboration with Prince.) Among the cameos 
popping out of the speakers are Ice Cube, Bootsy Collins, 
Kam, Dr. Dre, Humpty Hump (Digital Underground), Anthony 
Kiedis (Red Hot Chili Peppers) and Yo Yo. If Clinton 
sometimes seems to have left the building while his fans do 
the work (he produced — but didn't have a hand in 
writing — all the tracks, and his audible 
contributions are intermittent), Smell My Finger is 
nonetheless his record through and through. But then so are 
plenty of others that were recorded with only his spirit in 
the house.
Clinton briefly convened the P-Funk All Stars in '83; 
Urban Dancefloor Guerrillas is a monstrous dance record 
pretty much defined by its single, "Generator Pump."
In 1986, Capitol issued an ersatz best-of that 
reproduced one whole side (but not the title track) of 
Fish. Unnecessary to be sure, but if it was the only 
Clinton record available, you'd find it entertaining 
enough. The Mothership Connection (Live From Houston)
 
pairs a side of vintage live P-Funk with three selections 
(including "Atomic Dog," which is also on The Best 
Of) from the Capitol studio LPs.
This national treasure's musical concepts are so wide-
ranging and generous that he's needed an entire roster of 
groups — creating dozens of albums — to work them 
out. During Clinton's '70s heyday, there were two main 
exponents for his genius. Parliament (an outgrowth of the 
Parliaments, a doo-wop group dating back to the mid-'50s 
that had a 1967 hit with "(I Wanna) Testify"), which played 
idiosyncratic R&B with an initial emphasis on harmony 
vocals; Funkadelic, meanwhile, played exactly what its name 
implied — psychedelic funk. Clinton invented the form, 
and subsequent practitioners of it — from Prince to 
the Red Hot Chili Peppers (whose second album Clinton 
produced) and beyond — are deeply in his debt.
After laying low for a while (but doing theme music for 
The Tracey Ullman Show), Clinton resurfaced to co-
produce the Incorporated Thang Band's Lifestyles of the 
Roach and Famous with Bootsy Collins. The following 
year, signed to Prince's Paisley Park label, he made the 
excellent (and slightly purple-tinted) The Cinderella 
Theory, with guest shots by such young admirers as 
Chuck D. and Flavor Flav of Public Enemy. (The album 
includes another canine-based hit, "Why Should I Dog U 
Out?") Various co-productions and an appearance on Prince's 
Graffiti Bridge soundtrack followed.
Some of My Best Jokes Are Friends is a likable 
but fairly undistinguished effort featuring guest Thomas 
Dolby. What results from the pairing isn't quite tension, 
but one does get the sense that while Clinton wanted the 
(then) hot Dolby for added commercial viability, Dolby 
would like nothing better than to be Clinton.
Clinton in the '90s was aided immeasurably by his 
crazy cool, his easy rapport with rap stars raised on the 
crypto-spiritual essence of his P-Funk records, the 
corporate support of an influential fan, the growing 
knowledge of vintage funk among a wide audience exposed to 
it via roundabout channels and the election of a president 
with the same surname. An endless road of muscle-
relaxing, mind-boggling four-hour partyjam throwdowns 
(trimmed back to a mere blip in time for the short-
attention-span Lollapalooza crowd in '94) kept Clinton's 
reputation for doing it until everyone's satisfied intact, 
while an intermittent flow of reissues (like Tear the 
Roof Off 1974-1980, an annotated two-CD compilation of 
classics released in '93) has made some of his voluminous 
back catalogue available to those who need it.
George Clinton will never lose the respect of the 
children of the P, not so long as hip-hoppers continue 
sampling such Rosetta Stones of funk as "Atomic 
Dog," "Flashlight" and "One Nation Under a Groove." 
Actually, that isn't the point at all: his unassailable 
stature as the primary architect of booty-moving funk is as 
solid and reliable as the monumental grooves of his music. 
That's a given. The tricky bit for an active musical legend 
like Clinton is staying in the game as a contemporary 
contender, not just the beloved igniter of an eternal 
flame. In a culture so dependent on change, there are 
precious few veterans who can — if they even opt to 
try — keep doing the hip moves without looking like 
grandpa in bellbottoms.
R&B Skeletons in the Closet has vocals by ex-
Miss America (and soon to be a solo singing star) Vanessa 
Williams; here immortal phrasemaker Clinton asked the 
musical question "Do Fries Go with That Shake?" Otherwise, 
it was business as usual, with very little of the roots 
alluded to in the title overtly evident in the grooves.