
George Clinton & Parliament Funkadelic 10/08/2004

The fact that George Clinton is still touring at sixty-four is reason alone for celebration.  But the fact that he and his fellow funkateerz dropped their P-Funk circus on us for over four hours a few nights ago at the Crystal Ballroom was truly reason to dance like you’ve never danced before, as most in attendance seemed to be doing.  People were indeed moving every way imaginable, seen in variety forms and doings. Whether bouncing on the unique spring-loaded dance floor, raging on stage with George and the band in an all out dance party, shaking a leg while in line getting a beer or tapping their foot in the bathroom downstairs -people were getting down.
Clinton, rainbow locks and all, is a far cry from washed up and even though his minutes on the mic were few and far between, his voice is as powerful as ever.  When George told the crowd to sing something, the crowd sang.  I mean everybody sang.  He commanded more respect with one word than many singers do in an entire night.  And not only did we hang on his every movement, but the band did too.  When George is on stage make no mistake about it, this is still his show.  When he wanted somebody to stop soloing, he would just tell them to shut up and listen.  When he wanted the drums to kick in, he turned around and the drums would kick in.  He literally owned the room.  I’m quite sure that if he had asked everybody to strip naked and dance like headless chickens, everyone would have obliged.  Oh, to be George.
As I stated earlier this wasn’t really a song-oriented show, it was a groove-oriented show.  That being said there were a few indisputable highlights; early on, the familiar "Give Up The Funk (Tear The Roof Off The Sucker)" and "Up For The Down Stroke" had the crowd in a frenzy.  Around mid-set, during one of Clinton’s breaks, the Pink Floydish "Maggot Brain" invaded our minds and souls.  The instrumental epic echoed throughout the room for what seemed like an eternity.  "Bop Gun (One Nation Under A Groove)," "Atomic Dog" and "Flash Light" were all saved for the end of the night and were predictably well received.  Also of note was the surprising cover of the timeless classic "Whole Lotta Shakin’ Going On," which seemed about appropriate as ever.
I told a friend today that I saw George Clinton and they asked "isn’t he really old?"  If George Clinton is old, I don’t want to be young.  I can only hope I have half his spirit when I’m sixty-four.  Thanks, George, for landing the Mothership in Portland for a night!