
George Clinton Later Years
 George Clinton Perspectives
George Clinton



Born in 1940, Clinton began his career as a barber 
                              in Plainfield, N.J. before forming the doo-wop group 
                              the Parliaments in 1955. They were a regional success 
                              for more than a decade before breaking big with 
                              their top 20 hit "(I Just Wanna) Testify." 
                              Soon after, the band became caught up in a contract 
                              dispute that prevented Clinton from using the band's 
                              name.

Clinton left the group and moved to Detroit, where 
                              he was quickly introduced to the psychedelic acid-rock 
                              scene lead by Jimi Hendrix. Clinton formed Funkadelic 
                              as an antidote to the dress-alike, sound-alike Motown-inspired 
                              R&B scene at the time; Funkadelic dressed outrageously, 
                              played long improvisational jams, and featured 12-plus 
                              players.
With sprawling, tripped-out albums like Cosmic 
                              Slop, Free Your Mind, Maggot Brain and America Eats 
                              Its Young, Funkadelic ended the '60s and rang in 
                              the '70s by mixing rock and soul into one ever-boiling, 
                              always-hot melting pot. When the Parliaments' lawsuit 
                              was settled in 1974, Clinton formed a more R&B/dance-oriented 
                              group called Parliament and adopted a more theatrical 
                              science fiction style.
In 1982 he released the LP Computer Games, which featured the 
                  monster radio hit "Atomic Dog" but also began a hit-and-miss 
                  career as a solo artist. In the early '90s, Clinton was at the 
                  helm of a major resurgence as rap music hit the mainstream and 
                  the genre's biggest stars hailed Clinton as the true originator.
Throughout his career Clinton has remained a true 
                              original, combining humorous, eccentric lyrics and 
                              space-age concepts with top-level musicianship and 
                              untouchable grooves. No one knows how to funk like 
                              George Clinton.
By the late '70s, Clinton was leading and producing 
                              a slew of dynamic funk groups including Parliament, 
                              Funkadelic, Bootsy's Rubber Band, the Brides Of 
                              Dr. Funkenstein, the Pariets and the Horney Horns, 
                              as well as solo albums by P-Funkers Bernie Worrell, 
                              Fuzzy Haskins and Eddie Hazel.
His beats and grooves have been sampled by practically every 
                  hip-hop superstar including Dr. Dre, Snoop Doggy Dogg, N.W.A., 
                  Ice Cube, Tupac and countless others. George Clinton has always 
                  been ahead of his time, a true innovator. His musical diversity 
                  is matched only by his creative intensity.
Yet for all of his intricately detailed, elaborate, futuristic 
                  concept albums, Clinton remains a skilled humorist and a dead-on 
                  satirist. Not unlike his white rock counterpart, Frank Zappa, 
                  Clinton is whip-smart and has mastered the deadly art of mixing 
                  humor with music. But most important, his beats are tight!
Always colorful and offbeat, Clinton fused rock 
                              and R&B in the '60s, set the dance floor on 
                              fire with disco classics in the '70s, ushered in 
                              computer-based new wave in the '80s and literally 
                              built a hip-hop empire in the '90s.