
“I dream about it sometimes,” Bassham said.
“The U-Bolt is the best security you’re going to find,” Taylor said. “If [thieves] are popping those, they’re pretty sophisticated.”
Bassham said she thinks there should be an enclosed space for students to keep their bikes rather than the bike racks.
The man was charged with trespassing. However, Taylor said he does not think the man is the same thief who has been breaking the U-Bolts, since he was not carrying the necessary tools.
An RUPD officer spotted another suspicious male near a bike rack at Brown College Aug. 26. When the officer approached the man, he ran off campus, across Sunset Blvd. Although RUPD officers — along with members of the Houston Police Department K9 unit, the West University Place Police Department and the Southampton Patrol — tried to locate the suspect, the man escaped. Taylor said he thinks the man has been involved in many of the recent bike thefts.

Taylor said such thieves take advantage of the patterns of bike use on university campuses.
“If you see someone you don’t recognize hanging around the bike rack, call us,” Taylor said. ”If you see someone at more than one bike rack, they could be shopping.”
“We’ve had a spike,” he said. “We don’t normally lose 13 bikes in a month. We’ve got somebody that’s working us right now.”
RUPD officers arrested one possible bike thief during Orientation Week after a student noticed a suspicious male lingering around the bike racks at several of the south colleges. The student called RUPD, and when officers arrived, they discovered the man was carrying a tool used to break cable locks. The man had been arrested previously on campus for bike theft.
A recent series of bike thefts on campus has probably been the work of one or two thieves, Rice University Police Chief Bill Taylor said.
“We were pretty sure we had him,” Taylor said. “It was pretty frustrating.”
Hanszen College freshman Hannah Bassham said her bike was stolen the third day of O-Week. Bassham said she was upset to lose her bike, which she had secured using a small chain lock.
“If people are breaking locks, you know if they find a bike without a lock, they’ll definitely take it,” he said.
In the past month, 13 bicycles have been stolen from bike racks around campus, particularly at the residential colleges. Although RUPD does not keep statistics on the bike theft rate, Taylor said the number this month has been significantly higher than usual.
Students with bikes should secure them at all times, Taylor said.
RUPD has stepped up security around bike racks, Taylor said. He said students should also be observant.
“This time of year, there are a lot of brand-new people on campus with brand-new bikes,” Taylor said. “A lot of times they’re not secured properly. Also, people don’t recognize each other yet, so it’s harder to pick out someone who doesn’t belong.”
Students should also register their bikes with RUPD so the department will have information on file in case the bikes are stolen, Taylor said. Bike owners can register online at http://rupd.rice.edu/bicycle.
Many of the bikes stolen were secured by U-Bolts, the type of lock RUPD recommends students use. Taylor said it is rare that a bike thief has the tools needed to break a U-Bolt.