
Overall, approximately 5,335 babies in Michigan are born each year with birth defects, while nationally about 150,000 babies are born with defects nationally each year.
As for the March of Dimes and its continuing need for research funding, the goal remains on track since it was founded by President Franklin Roosevelt.
Through the years, White has exemplified the true meaning and intent of the credo that service to humanity is the best work of life, as a schoolteacher and elected public servant.
I agreed wholeheartedly.
Here in Macomb County, the cause took its first big step in 1984.
Though we've stemmed the tide of infantile paralysis, with the genius of Dr. Jonas Salk's vaccine to protect newborns from the crippling effects of the disease, the crusade for healthier babies must progress.
The young sheriff truly depicts the tenet that earth's greatest treasure is ingrained in one's personality. Ever since I've known this young man, he's always been a credit to the profession he loves and to his supportive parents.
I'm proud to say the mission continues, thanks to the men and women being honored each year by the General Alexander Macomb Committee.
For Hackel, what more can be said that's not etched into his citizen of year award, but I will say it.
And it was a unanimous vote that we call the salute the General Alexander Macomb Citizen of the Year award, named after the county's namesake, an American military hero who successfully booted the British out of New York state in the War of 1812.
In an average week, 2,565 babies are born in Michigan, and tragically, 21 die before their first birthday.
But first we needed a well-liked "citizen of the year" recipient to honor, and to launch the very first award dinner.
But we needed a name for the award.
Our mutual friend, Sterling Heights Dodge dealer Tony Viviano, had suggested that the time had come for Macomb County to host its own March of Dimes benefit.
After covering Warren City Hall politics for some of my more exciting news reporting days in mainstream middle-American Macomb County, my initial choice was veteran council member Harold Stilwell. As a dedicated public servant and local businessman, Stilwell was also a tutor of Warren's history.
Mitch Kehetian is Editorial Page editor of The Macomb Daily.
The citizen of the year honorees include Nancy White, chairwoman of the Macomb County Board of Commissioners, and Macomb County Sheriff Mark Hackel. Businessman Mike Aggeler, president of John's Lumber, will be acknowledged with the "Donna Greco Issa Family Award" for his family's continuing support of health care research.
"With this all-star lineup, we can expect more than 1,000 friends of the March of Dimes to attend the salute of our honorees," said Viviano, a 1989 citizen of year honoree.
The work of the March of Dimes gives hope for future generations, but it can only win through research funding.
Sharon then agreed that any such event had to be run by Macomb County volunteers and be given a "Macomb name."
Since that pioneering awards dinner, a string of distinguished men and women have been honored by the Alexander Macomb Committee March of Dimes unit, including at this fall's scheduled awards banquet when the 2005 citizens of the year and the "family of the year" are rightly honored.