
"If you have poor behavior in the classroom, that is going to impact how well a student can listen and learn," Gryzenia said. "Now our behavior problems have decreased dramatically and our academic achievements have risen, so there is evidence of the link between behavior and learning."
Ironically, Wallace was recently named president of the association. That means when the awards are made today in Lansing, the school boss will be both giving out the prizes and receiving one, along with a number of Mount Clemens administrators.
Macomb Academy, which employs 27 educators, is unique in that it provides an extended school day and calendar in order to provide students more classroom time. Macomb students spend an extra hour in school and attend classes 200 days instead of the normal 180-day schedule.
Gryzenia said she already has plans on how to spend the money. She will use it to bring back the Living Science Foundation, a Plymouth-based non-profit organization that brings animals into the classroom for educational experiences.
"The kids love the animals," she said.
"Clearly we are moving in the right direction and this progress, although only a first step, is a major step forward for us," Wallace said.
T.C. Wallace Jr., superintendent in Mount Clemens Community Schools, said the award validates efforts the entire district has been striving to make in recent years.
"We have experts in the field of school improvement who really know what to look for in the data submitted by the districts," said Laura Wotruba, a spokeswoman for Middle Cities. "Mount Clemens has done a good job in telling their success story and providing the evidence to back it up."
Principal Sharon Gryzenia said her improvement team concentrated on boosting academic achievement and also looked to enhance personal conduct.
Middle Cities Education Association has 33 districts in Michigan with dozens of school buildings. Schools applying for the award had to show how teachers and staff work together on improvement issues.
Winners receive a plaque honoring their commitment to student achievement and a $1,500 cash award.
Back in 1995 Macomb Academy won the same award, which is given to urban school districts that demonstrate leadership in school improvement.
The 300-student school in Mount Clemens Community Schools this week was notified it was one of four Michigan schools to receive the 2005 Robert and Patricia Muth Excellence in Leadership Award from Middle Cities Education Association.