
The invitation to last years contest, and the results may be found here: NBC 2003.
Only climbing shoes are needed! Recommended pieces of gear (except shoes) are: chalkbag, toothbrush, crashpad, and an old towel to wipe your shoes on. A pen or pencil to write on your scorecard is helpful. Don't forget to bring food, water and a big smile!
document.writeln("Last modified: " + document.lastModified)
There are two classes: Male and Female. You score points for each completed problem, with the overall goal to complete as many, and difficult, problems as possible. The score is counted as follows:
The second Nåsten BC turned out to be a very sunny and warm event. The temperature, reaching the high thirties in the sun, did not provide great friction conditions, but brought a lot of smiling faces. At ten o'clock there was about 20 eager participants lined up. During the next hour another 20+ people showed up. Together with spectators and non-competing boulderers, there was 50+ people among the boulders. Definitely a new record for Nåsten. About half of the field was made up of locals, and the other half (I believe) was from various parts of Stockholm. Finally nice to give something back to the bouldering competition scene, since a lot of Uppsala boulderers frequently competes in Boulder Open and Total Boulder. At the start of the competition it was the decided that the number of classes should be four instead of two. Best member of UKK (male/female) and best non-members (male/female) because of the obvious advantage of many years of climbing in Nåsten for some of the participants. The all-round strong man Olof Eriksson (UKK-member) spanked the rest of the field with a whooping 384 pts. As one of the "creators" of Nåsten in the late nineties and early two thousand, he was well worth the win. Best UKK-female was last years defender Anna Carlsson, with 125 pts, who is now starting to line up her Nåsten BC conquests. First up of the non-UKK male competitors was a fit looking Daniel Andersson (SKK) with 201 pts. The position as best non-UKK female was taken by Uppsala resident Anneli Nordqvist with 80 pts. You, the rest of the crowd that showed up, are not forgotten. The amount of tired but still smiling faces at the end of five hours of intense bouldering (90 problems) cannot be ignored. There will be a next Nåsten bouldering contest. "Most problems completed" was 45, and achieved by Olof Eriksson, who also flashed "Hello, hello" Fb7a (which now has suggested grade Fb6b). The hardest problem completed (and not suggested for downgrading) was "The cube" Fb6c. Finally,  millions of thanks to all competitors, spectators and sponsors.    --- Your humble organizer, Patrick.
No competitor is allowed to start bouldering until 11:00, and make sure that you (the competitor) have submitted your scorecard before 16:00 to the registration desk. The boulder problems have to be climbed as prescribed in the guidebook. A problem is not considered 'completed' until the participant is standing on the top of the boulder.
There are 90 competition problems on 13 different boulders. The competition boulders (as named in the boulderguide) are:
Be careful so that you don't injure yourself or other participants.All rules according to the Right of Public Access (in swedish 'Allemansrätten') has to be followed.Please try to keep a low profile when you park your car and/or bike, and during the contest.
A few images of Nåsten problems may be viewed at Team High Sport -> Jon Smedsaas.
By car: Assuming you arrived in Uppsala by highway E4, turn onto road 55 towards Norrköping. When you reach "Flogsta"/"Hamberg" (at the small ICA Supermarket) turn on to "Flogstavägen" going west. Follow the road when it, in a long bend, turns east, and take the first road on the right. Pass over a small bridge, and turn right again towards "Håga by". Drive through "Håga by", passing at least 5 speed bumps and continue on the gravel road (keep right). Park at the big sign at "Hällens gård" (approx. 8-9 cars can fit there). From there, walk west along the old railroad track and follow the signs (approx. 1600 meters). If the parking at "Hällens gård" is full, please park at the big parking lot at the Viking burial mound "Håga Högen"/"Kung Björns hög" that you pass, on your left, as you enter "Håga by". If You need further directions and maps then visit the map feature at www.gulasidorna.se. Click on "Kartor", then enter "håga" as "Gatunamn/plats", and "Uppsala" as "Postort". Then click on "sök". The maps to "Håga by" are fairly accurate, but the written description may be a bit confusing. If you bring your bike, you can speed up the approach to the boulder area from where you parked.
By Bicycle: The easiest and most convenient way of reaching the contest area is by bike. Ride the gravel road (the old railroad track) west from 'Ekeby bruk', through 'Håga by', and stay on the track until you see the sign for the competition. Park your bike without blocking the road or the riding trail. Then follow the trail south until you reach the registration area.
By public transportation: Busses leave from the large square in the city center (Stora torget). If you arrive by train you'll have to walk a short distance to "Stora torget" to catch the buss. To get to Nåsten boulder area take buss 51 to "Hågaby", from the city (Timetable). The buss ride takes approx. 20 min. To get back to city center (and from there walk to the train station) you take the same buss 51 (Timetable). From the end station in "Håga by", continue to walk west until the gravel road joins the old railroad track (You pass "Hällens gård" on your right). Continue westward along the railroad track and follow the signs. The total walking distance, from "Håga by", is approx. 1600 meters (approx. 25-30 min.).
Nåsten Bouldering Contest is an outdoor bouldering event that suits both beginners and elite boulderers. The competition will be held at the Nåsten boulder area in Uppsala (the majority of the boulders in zones 1-3), which gives you, the participant, an opportunity to go out there and practice the problems before the contest. During the competition you have 5 hours to complete as many, and as hard problems, you can manage.
Questions? Send an e-mail to Patrick.Uppsala Climbing Club.