

Madame Pauline Hunter
    of Hunterston, 30th Laird.
More pictures of 
Hunterston Castle here
Here I am, representing Clan Hunter at the Western Massachusetts Highland Games and Celtic Festival,
June 24, 2000.  The gentleman sitting in the tent is Steve May, a good friend of mine
whose company, InKeeper, hosts this site and
the WMass Games website. He traveled all the way from West Virginia, with his new bride,
Deb, to share the day.
The tartan background on this site is the current Hunter tartan.
I will soon have my Hunter
genealogy/family history posted here.

As is typical with anyone of Scottish descent, I could
likely claim any number of Clans as my own. I have chosen Clan Hunter for the simple and
pragmatic reason that my nearest antecedent from Scotland was Jane Hunter. I am still only
dabbling in searching that family line--I'll have more time when I retire, right?? What I
know thus far is that she and her parents, James Hunter and Margaret Allen Hunter, left
Greenoch and arrived in New Brunswick in 1846, settling at Perry Point (Kings County).
Later on in that same year she married John Tenpenny Murphy in St. John. I can only
surmise what brought Jane and her parents to the New World--there was famine in Scotland
in those years and there had been several epidemics of typhus and cholera. I have also
heard they, being weavers, did not like those new mechanized looms--Luddites! Meanwhile,
if you are a Hunter (or a Murphy) and some of your ancestors settled in New Brunswick,
perhaps we can compare notes.
This was my first time out representing the
Clan at a games, and I had a great time doing so. The Association was extremely helpful in
calming my nerves and getting tent supplies to me in a timely fashion. I plan on doing it
again next year!

All suggestions for other Hunter links welcome:
The official website for Clan Hunter Association, USA
Thanks!
Clan
Hunter
I have created a OneList community for Clan Hunter. Please join the
email list set up exclusively for us!

King David I would have invited Normans to join him in
Scotland, friends to aid him in ruling an unruly kingdom, as David grew up in the Norman
courts. The name Hunter does derive from the occupation of our original kinsmen, but it
implies much more.  As you will note by the Clan Crest, there is a coronet around the
dog's neck, signifying a royal connection--apparently our ancestor was excellent at his
craft, having been appointed the Chief Hunter in Scotland by King David.

Clan Hunter
Links