
In Sections 3.2 and 4.2 below we compare the abilities of the CIDOC CRM 

        and MPEG-7 to describe museum multimedia, by describing this example using 

        their domain-specific vocabularies.
Domain-specific ontologies have been developed by 

        two different ISO Working Groups to standardize the semantics associated 

        with the description of museum objects (CIDOC Conceptual Reference Model) 

        and the description of multimedia content (MPEG-7) - but no single ontology 

        or metadata model exists for describing museum multimedia content. This 

        paper describes an approach which combines the domain-specific aspects 

        of MPEG-7 and CIDOC-CRM models into a single ontology for describing and 

        managing multimedia in museums. The result is an extensible model which 

        could lead to a common search interface and the open exchange, sharing 

        and integration of heterogeneous multimedia resources distributed across 

        cultural institutions.
The relationships of the Segment types to other segment types and multimedia 

        entities are dependent on the allowed types of decomposition. Multimedia 

        resources can be segmented or decomposed into sub-segments through 4 types 

        of decomposition:
The metadata associated with multimedia resources can be classified into 

        a number of different categories:
A number of projects have developed or are developing metadata models 

        for multimedia in museums (Gabriel, 2001; The TOKEN 2000) or for historical 

        audiovisual collections (The ECHO). These projects are either developing 

        their own application-specific data models and vocabularies, or choosing 

        one of the existing standards (MPEG-7 or CIDOC/CRM). None have considered 

        the approach of merging ontologies from the museum domain and the multimedia 

        domain into a single ontology.
Example 2
Figure 1 - The CIDOC/CRM Class Hierarchy
In addition, the potential to re-use multimedia content to create new 

        intellectual property, has further accelerated the growth in the size 

        and number of institutional multimedia databases. Existing multimedia 

        objects are being combined and reused to generate complex, interactive 

        multimedia, hypermedia, virtual reality displays and participatory exhibitions. 

        This has led to a demand for systems and tools which can satisfy the more 

        sophisticated requirements for storing, managing, searching, accessing, 

        retrieving, sharing and tracking complex multimedia resources.

The "CIDOC object-oriented Conceptual Reference Model" (CRM), 

        was developed by the ICOM/CIDOC Documentation Standards Group to provide 

        an 'ontology' for cultural heritage information. Its primary role is to 

        serve as a basis for mediation of cultural heritage information and thereby 

        provide the semantic 'glue' needed to enable wide area information exchange 

        and the integration of heterogenous resources between cultural institutions.
Initially MPEG-7 definitions (description schemes and descriptors) were 

        expressed solely in XML Schema [9-11]. XML Schema proved ideal for expressing 

        the syntax, structural, cardinality and datatyping constraints required 

        by MPEG-7. However semantic interoperability is necessary to enable systems 

        to exchange data (e.g., metadata descriptions), to understand the precise 

        meaning of that data and to translate or integrate data across systems 

        or from different metadata vocabularies. Hence it was recognized that 

        there was a need to formally define the semantics of MPEG-7 terms; and 

        to express these definitions in a machine understandable, interoperable 

        language. RDF Schema (RDF Schema Spec 2000) was the obvious choice due 

        to its ability to express semantics and semantic relationships through 

        class and property hierarchies and its endorsement by the W3C's Semantic 

        Web Activity (W3C). Consequently the Adhoc Group for MPEG-7 Semantic Interoperability 

        was established and an MPEG-7 ontology was developed and expressed in 

        RDF Schema and DAML+OIL extensions (Hunter Adding, Hunter An ROF 2001). 

        The extensions provided by DAML+OIL (DAML+OIL) were necessary to satisfy 

        certain requirements such as the need for multiple ranges and sub-class 

        specific constraints. The basic class hierarchy of MPEG-7 content and 

        segments is shown in Figure 2 below e.g., the MPEG-7 class VideoSegment 

        is a subclass of both Video and Segment.
Hence in the remainder of this paper we describe both the CIDOC/CRM and 

        MPEG-7 metadata models. We then analyze them both to determine the overlaps, 

        intersections and differences. Based on this analysis we hope to be able 

        to determine how the models can best be merged to combine the two domain-specific 

        vocabularies of MPEG-7 and CIDOC/CRM, without introducing semantic inconsistencies 

        or redundancies. The final outcome is in essence, a single, machine-understandable, 

        extensible ontology designed to support the description and management 

        of multimedia resources within museums.
Combining the CIDOC CRM and MPEG-7 to Describe Multimedia 

        in Museums
Audiovisual or "multimedia" content within museums is highly 

        diverse and varies widely in origin, genre, purpose, media type, format, 

        quality, age, context and the reason for its cultural significance or 

        retention within a museum or collection. Multimedia in museums can include 

        everything from disintegrating maps on paper to full feature films on 

        DVD. Within the scope of this paper we are referring to: images, audio, 

        video, multimedia, graphics and animation - in both analog and digital 

        form. Table 1 below provides an overview of the typical constitution of 

        multimedia collections within a museum
MPEG-7 provides:
The Moving Pictures Expert Group (MPEG), a working group of ISO/IEC, 

        is expected to shortly release the final standard for MPEG-7 (MPEG-7 Overview), 

        the "Multimedia Content Description Interface", a standard for 

        describing multimedia content. The goal of this standard is to provide 

        a rich set of standardized tools to enable both humans and machines to 

        generate and understand audiovisual descriptions which can be used to 

        enable fast efficient retrieval from digital archives (pull applications) 

        as well as filtering of streamed audiovisual broadcasts on the Internet 

        (push applications). MPEG-7 can describe audiovisual information regardless 

        of storage, coding, display, transmission, medium, or technology. It addresses 

        a wide variety of media types including still pictures, graphics, 3D models, 

        audio, speech, video, and combinations of these (e.g., multimedia presentations).
Associated with each of the subclasses in Figure 2 are various properties 

        which define permitted relationships between the segment classes corresponding 

        to specific structural or organizational description schemes and the permitted 

        audio, visual and audiovisual attributes associated with different types 

        of multimedia segments.
Jane Hunter, DSTC Pty Ltd, University of Queensland, Australia
Metadata standards enable interoperability between systems and organizations 

        so that information can be exchanged and shared. Standardized metadata 

        models have been developed to describe museum objects (CIDOC Conceptual 

        Reference Model) (CIDOC Conceptual) and to describe multimedia content 

        (MPEG-7) (ICS) but no standards currently exist for specifically describing 

        museum multimedia content. Hence the key goal of this project is to analyze 

        and evaluate each of these existing standards and to determine a way to 

        merge the two ontologies to generate a standardized model for describing 

        museum multimedia content. Such a model, which is capable of supporting 

        the exchange of information between existing collection management systems 

        (for physical artefacts) and emerging digital asset management systems 

        would enable knowledge and resources to be shared, re-used and exchanged 

        to a much greater extent than is currently possible both within and between 

        museums.
Abstract
Hence in addition to the typical bibliographic information, the metadata 

        for multimedia resources may need to describe detailed formatting information, 

        structural or segmentation information (temporal, spatial and spatio-temporal 

        segments), semantic information (description of the objects/people/places/events 

        which are recorded) and the event history and rights information. A detailed 

        description of the metadata requirements for multimedia in museums is 

        provided in the next section.
The CIDOC CRM is presented as an object-oriented extensible data model, 

        expressed in RDF Schema (RDF Schema Spec 2000). Figure 1 illustrates the 

        class hierarchy for the CIDOC CRM, as generated by the SIS knowledge base 

        (ICS). The detailed specification of the CIDOC CRM Version 3.2 which includes 

        detailed descriptions of the class and property definitions, hierarchies 

        and relationships, is available from (Crofts, 2002).
Together with an analysis of the class and property hierarchies provided 

        by the CIDOC CRM, this exercise reveals that the CIDOC CRM's strengths 

        lie in its ability to describe:
Keywords: Multimedia, Metadata, Interoperability, 

        MPEG-7, CIDOC-CRM
Example 1
The CIDOC CRM provides the is_documented_in property to record 

        the relationship of a culturally significant physical or real-world artefact 

        or event to its visual/audio/audiovisual recording, which is classed as 

        a Document. However there is no explicit support for the different 

        media types in CIDOC/CRM. Because the CIDOC CRM is designed to provide 

        an extensible underlying framework, it may be possible to improve support 

        for multimedia descriptions, through the addition of MPEG-7 multimedia-specific 

        sub-classes and sub-properties to existing CIDOC/CRM superclasses and 

        super-properties. We investigate this approach in Section 5.
Table 1: Overview of Museum Multimedia Types

Figure 2 - MPEG-7 Multimedia Segment Class Hierarchy
In order to understand and evaluate the CIDOC CRM's ability to describe 

        multimedia resources, we apply it to the example in Section 2.3.
Multimedia provides museums with a rich paradigm for capturing, communicating 

        and preserving cultural information. It offers new capabilities for structuring, 

        interpreting and communicating knowledge, and the significance of artifacts 

        within museum collections through the use of digital video, audio, images, 

        graphics and animation. Making collections available in digital form, 

        both in-house and through networks, provides museums with a tremendous 

        opportunity to meet their educational mandate. When linked together over 

        networks, museum multimedia databases become even more valuable as cross-cultural 

        resources for educational and research purposes.
Table 2: Typical Format Metadata for Different Media Types
Often multimedia content has been generated for preservation and dissemination 

        purposes. The multimedia resource may be a digital surrogate of the original 

        culturally significant museum artifact which is too valuable or fragile 

        to be handled or is inaccessible for reasons of location. In many situations, 

        the multimedia resources are created as an alternative visual representation 

        (image, model) of a physical museum artifact or as a replacement for earlier 

        analog and digital formats which are becoming obsolescent.
Metadata is the value-added information which documents the administrative, 

        descriptive, preservation, technical and usage history and characteristics 

        associated with resources. It provides the underlying foundation upon 

        which digital asset management systems rely to provide fast, precise access 

        to relevant resources across networks and between organisations. The metadata 

        associated with multimedia objects is infinitely more complex than simple 

        metadata for resource discovery of simple atomic textual documents and 

        the problems and costs asssociated with generating such metadata are correspondingly 

        magnified.
Consider the following example which is typical of multimedia content 

        held by museums or archives: a film owned by the Museum of Victoria which 

        contains unedited footage of Australian Aboriginal tribal ceremonies filmed 

        by anthropologist Baldwin Spencer between 1901 and 1912. Below is the 

        catalogue item from ScreenSound Australia's online catalogue. In 1999, 

        the original film was copied to digital format (MPEG-1) by the National 

        Film and Sound Archive for the purpose of preservation.
In most cases, it is the semantic content, which is depicted or recorded 

        on the multimedia resource which is of value i.e., the resource records 

        an event, place, person, object or concept which is of cultural, historical, 

        geographic or educational importance. For some multimedia resources, the 

        cultural or historical significance lies with the medium or recording 

        technology e.g., the earliest photographs, film, video and audio recordings. 

        In some cases, the multimedia object is valuable because of the person 

        who captured or recorded it (e.g., home movie collection of John F. Kennedy) 

        or because it is part of a larger collection or bequest or it is exemplary 

        of a particular genre, era or technique. In many cases, both the semantic 

        content and the context, agents, technique and medium are all of importance 

        and need to be
This paper describes a proposal for an interoperable 

        metadata model, based on international standards, which has been designed 

        to enable the description, exchange and sharing of multimedia resources 

        both within and between cultural institutions.