

After attending the weekend I am excited at the prospect of
being a better competitor during the coming season and seeing again the friends
I met during an enjoyable and incredibly informative weekend in the company of a
group of very special women.
Aspirations of course participants ranged from "not
finishing last like I usually do" to "finishing in the prizes".
To help us realise our dreams we received swimming technique coaching from Brian
Welsh and were then able to practice our improved stroke in the pool. Other
sections of the course involved cycle maintenance, technique and group riding
skills. Without exception all the women left with a new confidence to assault
our bikes with allen keys and speak the language of the bike shop.
Most of us were relatively inexperienced and the weekend
provided a valuable opportunity to receive expert advice and tuition. It was
inspirational to hear from Shirley Yarde about how she inventively manages to
combine her gruelling Hawaii Iron Man training with full time work. Similarly
most of us were humbled into reverential silence when Steve Trew described each
split second of Sian Brice’s unimaginably painful preparation for the Sydney
Olympics. After hearing this account I am sure each of us felt an echo of her
immense disappointment, contemplating how randomly cruel sport can be and how
much respect our elite competitors have earned.
Biddie Foord of Terrapin Wetsuits is impassioned by her
desire to see women enjoy triathlon and achieve their aspirations within the
sport. Fuelled by this determination she undertakes the daunting task of
organising the Terrapin Women’s Triathlon Training Weekend. The event was held
this year during the weekend of 27-28.1.01 at John Cleveland College in Hinckley
Leicestershire.




DAWN ECKERSLEY-WRIGHT
Around fifty female triathletes arrived enthusiastic to learn
more about how to perform at their best in our unique sport. Running, swimming
and cycling are all addictive. If you combine the three, add the thrill of
competition in an environment that quickly begins to feel like a welcoming
extended family and you have an addiction that can change your life. All of the
women attending the event had decided they wanted to get the most from their
sport by training effectively, employing improved technique and avoiding injury.
To achieve this goal the weekend included both presentations and practical
training sessions. We were able to seek advice from renowned coaches such as
Derek Bowley, Jamie Capes, Mick English and Chris Kitchen. Dr. Rod Jaques the
Olympic team doctor was available to answer all those questions athletes have
about injury, illness and performance improvement.
Biddie has the rare qualities essential in anybody attempting
to organise such an ambitious event. She has a well-nourished sense of fun and
seems to be a close personal friend of innumerable high achieving athletes,
doctors, physiotherapists and coaches persuaded to share her vision and give
their time without charge.

After a presentation from Helen Cawthorne giving us the
technical information we needed to run faster the group gamely headed to the
nearby woods to practice running drills and interval training. Many of us
regretted yielding to the temptation of a heavy lunch but the intervals could be
conveniently adapted by pausing to admire a passing puppy.
Athletes were able to seek advice and from physiotherapist
Chris Bailey and enjoy the opportunity to have a professional sports massage.
Gait specialists  Advance Performance were available to offer a detailed
examination of running style on a treadmill and recommend appropriate shoes. A
relaxation session led by Steve Trew proved so effective that soft snores were
heard. The weekend provided a supportive and encouraging environment to meet
other female athletes and ask the questions you always felt would expose your
naivety.