
Temperatures were decidedly cool, but perfect for running, despite some
      blustery winds. It was a chilly 6 Celsius at the 8:30am starts, that rose
      to 13 in the morning, and 22 in bright sunshine as the final stragglers
      made their way to the finish below the historic Plains of Abraham in the
      early afternoon. And along the "Two Shores" of the St. Lawrence,
      the "Great River of Canada", the scenery was truly magnificent.
      The scenery and history were all around--Place Royale and "Vieux
      Quebec", the Plains, topped by the Chateau Frontenac and the statue
      of Samuel de Champlain who founded New France and Canada at that site in
      1608--all combined to offer a special, imposing sense of magnificence and
      occasion to the proceedings.
Great credit is due to Denis Therrien, Joanne Caron and their
      organizational team. Not only do they have what is one of Canada's
      most-international marathons and half-marathons [almost 20% of all
      participants were from overseas; almost 30% of the marathon runners], but
      arguably Canada's best organized event. Bravo!
The sun shone, the cool breezes blew off the great river, and the
      runners ran. And how they ran! What a fine debut for the Canada Running
      Series in Quebec City. Without detracting from the other events, it was
      clearly the Series event--the New Balance Demi [Half] Marathon--that stole
      the show. With 1,600+ runners, it was the largest event of the morning,
      and the times were in a different class than the marathon.
Bennacer's 63:29 demonstrated his consistency this year, and enjoyment
      of the distance, after earlier Series' half marathons in Montreal 64:01 [adidas
      Demi marathon de Montreal, 13 April, 2nd place], and Vancouver 63:14 [Scotiabank
      Vancouver Half, 22 June, 1st place]. We look forward with anticipation to
      his next outing at the Scotiabank Toronto Waterfront Half on 28 September.
Mustapha Bennacer of Montreal showed why he is the class of the Series
      this year [and current leader], leading from wire to wire for the victory
      in 63:29. From the start, Bennacer was in control, see-sawing forward and
      back with a group that included Kenyans Michael Musili and Kennedy Ondimu,
      and Series-rivals Danny Tschindid of Toronto and clubmate Djamel Boukhari
      of Montreal. At 5K, in the stronger winds over the bridge across the St.
      Lawrence, Bennacer slowed right down, inviting the others to take a lead.
      Despite Tshindid's joking that they were at walking pace, no one obliged,
      and they continued to run as a pack until 12K. At that point, as they hit
      the flat boulevard of the north shore for the run into old Quebec,
      Bennacer made his decisive move. No one could respond, and by the finish,
      he'd put a minute between him and the others--Musili second in 64:27;
      Tshindid 3rd in 64:31 [a PR for the promising 20-year-old], and Boukhari
      4th in 64:50, despite his ongoing intestinal troubles.
In comparison, the marathon was positively pedestrian, won by Shingie
      Badza of Burlington in 2:33:05, from an unfit Jean-Paul Niyonsaba of
      Ottawa in 2:39:57. In a thrilling women's finish, Barbara McManus of
      Worcester, Massachusetts passed Helen Cawthorne from England in the final
      kilometre, after the Brit had led all the way--to finish 1-2 in 2:51:51 to
      2:52:12.
Underscoring the international flavour of the day, Japanese Atsuko
      Sugawara took 1st in the women's Demi in 1:19:36, followed by Josiane
      Aboungono [1:19:53], Liz Maguire [1:23:43], and Toronto's April Boutlbee
      [1:25:41] who took advantage of the road trip with a strong PR for 4th
      place and valuable Series points. It was good to see Etobicoke's Aboungono
      on the roads again-- we've not seen anything of her for over a year, after
      the young runner from The Gabon settled in Canada and had some promising
      runs in 2001.
August 25, 2003
Felicitations! And for those of you who missed it, put it on your
      calendar for 2004--this really is a gem!
Top
Full results and photos at www.marathonquebec.com 
      See also www.canadarunningseries.com
It was a magnificent setting for the Canada Running Series debut in
      Quebec City on Sunday 24th. Over 4,000 runners came together from 29
      different countries to participate in the 5 different distances [marathon,
      half, 10K, 5K Run for Charity, and kids' Mini Marathon] on offer. There
      were over 500 Americans, 400+ Ontarians, and 119 runners from
      "old" France.
Back to News & Releases