
KPMG resigned in early February, saying it had informed the audit 
      committee that Lancer had "likely engaged in illegal acts." It later 
      told the SEC it couldn't rely on statements made by Lancer management 
      and no longer would stand by earlier financial reports it had made for 
      the company.
But "from an ethics standpoint, the amount (of personal use of company 
      resources) is not necessarily the issue because if you look at most 
      companies' ethics policies, that would be considered unethical," said 
      Richard Mason, director of the Maguire Center for Ethics and Public 
      Responsibility at Southern Methodist University.
Despite the audit's criticism of the loans and personal use of company 
      resources, as well as strong criticism of Lancer's record-keeping in 
      general, a late January news release from the company and the audit 
      committee said the audit had found no evidence of "intentional 
      misconduct" by company executives.
KPMG was replaced Tuesday by BDO Seidman LLP. The company also announced 
      that its first and only chairman, 67-year-old Alfred Schroeder, has 
      resigned as chairman to be replaced by board member Richard C. Osborne.
The loans and the value of the company resources used pale compared to 
      allegations in ongoing federal trials that executives at Tyco 
      International and Adelphia Communications misused tens of millions in 
      corporate funds.
"They're (the Schroeders) hard-headed Germans," said Rowe, a general 
      partner in Dallas-based Greenbriar Partners, a private investment 
      partnership. "But this is not Tyco."
The brothers who founded Coca-Cola supplier Lancer Corp. have abdicated 
    their respective titles of chairman and CEO within three days of each 
    other and a week after a government filing detailed an internal audit's 
    criticizing brothers George and Alfred Schroeder's personal use of the San 
    Antonio company's resources.
The filing, made Feb. 24 with the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
      also said the internal audit criticized Lancer for "a poor job of 
      handling and documenting management loans," referring to $781,000 in 
      company loans to the brothers.
The investigative audit, ordered by Lancer, said it found 
      "inappropriate" personal use of company resources while noting the value 
      was relatively small.
The loans subsequently were repaid, but the audit said there was no 
      documentation that Lancer's board had approved some of the loans.
The scope and nature of the audit's findings and that news release are 
      at the heart of some of KPMG's dissatisfaction and subsequent harsh 
      criticism of Lancer in letters to the company and in SEC filings.
Details of the audit were outlined in recent SEC filings that afford a 
      window to behind-the-scenes disputes between Lancer and its former 
      external auditor, KPMG, and which list findings of the audit's 
      investigation of Lancer's dealings with Coca-Cola and allegations of 
      management misuse of company funds.


George Schroeder used Lancer employees to work on his houses while on 
      company time and used company warehouse space, printing and supplies. He 
      later gave the company $21,600, his estimate of the valued received for 
      the warehouse use.
Lancer and Coke remain under federal investigation over allegations of 
      bogus transactions and phony accounting to boost sales of a new soda 
      dispenser. Lancer's stock hasn't traded on the American Stock Exchange 
      since Feb. 2, the day KPMG resigned as its auditor.
Three days earlier, the resignation of George Schroeder, announced Jan. 
      30, became effective. He was replaced by Lancer's president, Christopher 
      D. Hughes. The brothers declined through a spokesman Tuesday to comment 
      on the findings of the audit committee or KPMG's statements.
But a major Lancer shareholder and past critic of management, Frederick 
      E. "Shad" Rowe — while applauding Lancer's decision to let outsiders run 
      the company and head the board — thinks the brothers and Lancer are 
      being unfairly portrayed by KPMG and unfairly tainted by questions 
      concerning its deals with Coke.