
In July 1950, the
    National Bureau of Standards (NBS) reported that the RCA system demonstrated its
    superiority in more (12) of the eighteen categories than CBS’s line-interlaced system
    (9). It also offered the most "opportunity for improvement." Despite this report
    and the demonstrations of RCA’s basic technologies and principles of electronic
    color-compatible television, the FCC rejected RCA’s system in September 1950.
In January 1949,
    Brown, Bedford, Kell, David Luck, William Cherry, George Sziklai, and Alfred Schroeder
    agreed that RCA’s objective should be a system in which color signals could be
    received without adjustment in monochrome on black-and-white sets while monochrome signals
    could be received by color sets. The broadcast signal should take up no more than the 6
    MHz bandwidth allotted for monochrome, and the picture quality should be equivalent in
    resolution, brightness, and flicker. Elmer Engstrom, then Vice President in Charge of
    Research, RCA Laboratories, summarized the methods by which RCA would accomplish these
    goals:
Until then, these
    developments had taken place in relative obscurity at the Princeton Labs. When the FCC
    announced that hearings on proposed formats for color television would begin in September,
    however, RCA’s R&D on the system commanded the attention of the government, the
    media, and the competition for the next eight months. During this time, despite the
    distractions, the Labs’ staff transmitted color broadcast signals through
    AT&T’s 2.7 megacycle coaxial cable, conducted channel-interference tests for its
    own and competing systems, showed undistorted monochrome signals on a color set, and,
    perhaps most importantly, developed a single-cathode ray tube color receiver.
Over the winter,
    more than fifty scientists and engineers at the Princeton Labs, supported by technical and
    administrative staff, worked with engineers at RCA’s CRT plant in Lancaster,
    Pennsylvania, to make a demonstration model. By the end of March, 1950, as promised, RCA
    showed the FCC its color picture tube in a receiver similar to those consumers bought for
    black-and-white television. More than any other component of the system, the shadow-mask
    CRT made color television a practical household technology.
Bedford’s
    "mixed highs," along with Clarence Hansell’s application of time-division
    multiplexing to color broadcast transmissions, enabled the compression of the televised
    signal into two components. One carried the luminance, or brightness, and the other the
    chrominance, or color information. A monochrome set would simply ignore the color
    component on the subcarrier. Receiving monochrome signals on a color receiver proved more
    complicated, but Harry Kihn’s "Kolor Killer" circuit resolved the problem.
    Thus, color and monochrome receivers would be able to display, without adjustment,
    transmissions of monochrome and color programs.
On this site between 1946 and 1950 the research staff of RCA Laboratories invented the
    world’s first electronic, monochrome- compatible, color television system. They worked
    with other engineers in the industry for three years to develop a national analog standard
    based on this system, which lasted until the transition to digital broadcasting.
After RCA
    carried out more field tests, the NTSC forwarded this standard to the FCC in a petition on
    July 22, 1953. The FCC approved the standard on December 17 and it has remained in place
    for analog color television transmission ever since.
In 1946, then, RCA
    committed to developing an all-electronic system designed to the same reception standards
    enjoyed on monochrome sets. By 1947, Kell’s group had demonstrated two versions of
    electronic color television, the highlight of which was the use of Alda V. Bedford’s
    principle of mixed highs. Bedford showed that the human eye could distinguish changes in
    brightness but not in color at high levels of detail. Therefore high-frequency components
    of the primary colors—red, green, and blue—could be blended and carried on one
    of the color signals, reducing the amount of bandwidth necessary for transmission.
RCA unveiled its
    final system in June 1951 at NBC’s Washington studios. A week later, RCA conducted
    another successful demonstration at the RCA Exhibition Hall in Manhattan, featuring
    Nanette Fabray. Extensive field testing using this standard began in February 1952 by
    several manufacturers with continued RCA support. A year later, the second NTSC published
    its color standard which, but for a minimal adjustment to the color subcarrier frequency,
    followed RCA’s lead.
The laboratories’ researchers, led by Ray D.
    Kell,
    experimented with electromechanical field sequential color systems during and shortly
    after the war, demonstrating such a system to the FCC in December 1945. Despite the
    demo’s success, Elmer Engstrom and the Labs’ management realized the practical
    limitations of the technology in terms of picture brightness, monochrome compatibility,
    and scalability of the picture image. Such systems used a three-color filter on a wheel
    approximately three times the size of the image. To reduce flicker to an acceptable level,
    the wheel spun at 3600 rpm.
During the
    hearings in October and November, RCA demonstrated a system that, when not suffering the
    effects of a heat wave, indicated the feasibility of a compatible electronic color
    television system. The images were not impressive compared to the improved CBS system, the
    weak point being the receiver. The "triniscope" used three kinescope tubes and
    an arrangement of mirrors to project the color image on a screen. The sheer bulk of this
    design required that the labs develop a more practical alternative for the home to gain
    approval of their system from a commission that wanted color television implemented as
    soon as possible. Engstrom promised the FCC that RCA would have a full-color cathode ray
    tube (CRT) ready in six months. This provoked a crash research and development effort, the
    success of which contradicted the many experts who claimed it couldn’t be done.
RCA also continued
    to improve camera tubes. In a studio environment, size was less of a problem. Princeton
    staff, led by Dr. Paul K. Weimer, borrowed from the monochrome system that he had helped
    invent and applied it to color. The color camera was composed of three image orthicons,
    the standard tube for broadcasting developed at the labs during World War II. Each image
    orthicon scanned an image in a primary color, treating it like a monochrome picture. The
    camera circuitry then blended the three primaries--red, green, and blue--and sent the
    image to the amplifier. RCA introduced the first commercial color camera, the TK-40, based
    on this design, in 1952. Weimer and his team continued to work on a single-tube color
    camera based on their two-inch vidicon tube, which RCA announced three years later.
The rest of the
    television industry agreed with the NBS, however, and had already started refining the
    format and technologies developed by the labs. The second National Television System
    Committee (NTSC) , comprised of engineers from all the interested parties, was organized
    in January 1950. Members of the industry and the FCC agreed to develop with RCA a standard
    for electronic color television broadcasting and reception. The NTSC adopted
    specifications for field testing in December, 1951. As Elmer Engstrom pointed out, the
    specifications did not differ significantly from what RCA had proposed in 1946:
Eric
    Wendt, Chair,IEEE Princeton/Central New Jersey Section, Harry Kihn, IEEE Life
    Fellow and Jim Carnes, President and CEO-Sarnoff Corporation, unveil the IEEE Milestone
    Plaque.
Researchers
    developed five versions of the single tube but all agreed that Harold B. Law’s
    refinement of Schroeder’s shadowmask tube offered the best solution. The tricolor
    picture tube resembled a monochrome receiver, where the screen’s glow was based on
    the intensity of the electron beam and signal. The main difference was that the color tube
    contained three electron guns, one for each of the primary colors. The mask was placed
    next to the screen and allowed the guns to strike the screen through hundreds of thousands
    of perforations. Deposited on the screen were hundreds of thousands of tiny phosphor
    clumps, each comprised of three discrete dots. When the guns struck the appropriate dots,
    they emitted red, blue, and green light according to the intensity of the beam. The
    relative brightness of the phosphors determined the colors seen by the viewer.
The Radio Corporation of America's (RCA) color system was the
    only one designed to be directly compatible with monochrome broadcast transmissions and
    the only one that used no moving parts. Until the researchers at the RCA Laboratories took
    up the challenge after World War II, it appeared that the Federal Communications
    Commission (FCC) would approve the Columbia Broadcasting System’s (CBS)
    electromechanical system of color television. This was incompatible with the monochrome
    television system established before World War II. Encouraged by chief executive David
    Sarnoff and supported by engineers at other branches of the corporation, the staff at RCA
    Labs laid out the conceptual framework, established most of the principles and
    techniques, and demonstrated the technologies necessary for the electronic pickup,
    broadcast, and reception of color television in the home. This system, with contributions
    by other companies, became an international standard still used for analog color
    television.
By the end of
    1948, however, technical and regulatory pressures forced the Labs’ researchers to
    start finding ways to compress the bandwidth for color to the six megahertz (MHz) used for
    monochrome in the VHF section of the electromagnetic spectrum. Until then, they and the
    FCC had counted on broadcasting color in the UHF section, using up to 14.5 MHz per
    channel. Princeton staff under Dr. George Brown discovered the difficulties in using the
    UHF band for television in terms of both propagation and power consumption, while the
    growing demand for channels indicated that broadcasters would use 6 MHz allotments in UHF
    as an extension of VHF.
The most
    significant contributions to RCA’s system came from the Hazeltine Corporation.
    Hazeltine, which had a cross-licensing agreement with RCA, demonstrated to the Princeton
    lab researchers its concepts of constant luminance and "shunted monochrome" in
    April 1950. The latter resolved one of the problems of compatibility between electronic
    color transmission and its reception on a monochrome receiver, and was similar to an idea
    George Brown had frequently sketched but never patented. Constant luminance represented an
    extension of Bedford’s mixed-highs principle to changes in brightness over time and
    significantly improved the picture image. On December 5, 1950, RCA demonstrated its system
    using what it called the "bypassed" monochrome concept which resulted in greatly
    reduced moiré patterns on the shadow-mask tube.
To reduce color
    fringing within the narrower transmission, Schroeder and Kell adapted quadrature-amplitude
    modulation to transmit a wideband orange-cyan I axis and narrowband green-purple Q axis.
    This provided full-color reproduction in video frequencies of less than 0.5 MHz by the Q
    and I axes, two-color reproduction between 0.5 and 1.5 MHz by the I axis, and monochrome
    detail between 1.5 MHz and 4.2 MHz. RCA announced its compatible, dot-sequential system on
    August 25, 1949, broadcasts of which began in September on NBC's WNBW Channel 4 in
    Washington, D.C.
Mixed highs and
    multiplexing also reduced bandwidth usage so that, along with John Evans’s and
    Randall Ballard’s proposal to use dot interlacing to scan the colors, the Princeton
    engineers established the basis for modern analog color television. The dot sequential
    color system involved high-speed time-division multiplexing using a sampling frequency of
    3.583125 MHz. Initially, synchronization of the sampling frequencies between the
    transmitter and receiver was accomplished by varying the timing of the trailing edge of
    the horizontal sync pulse, thereby controlling the sampling phasing and color dot
    interlace on a line-to-line basis. Bedford overcame the instability of this method by
    suggesting that a reference burst of the color sampling frequency be transmitted during
    the "rear porch" of the horizontal sync waveform.