
James R. "Reggie" Paros
Secretary - Dale Metz
Jim also recommended that during these pre-meeting gatherings, we might coordinate product review 
sessions.  The purpose would include reviewing new products and sharing information and experience 
between providers in a round table forum.
Jim Frazier provided nominations for new officers from the nominating committee.  They were as 
follows:
Michael Southard
Bill Godfrey provided a report on the run report committee.  He expressed that the current thought was to 
dissolve the present committee.  The state would assign a new task group with a more narrow mission of 
dealing with the current environment and issues facing the run report.

Robert Sims reviewed some of the current concerns facing reporting in the state.  A significant problem 
includes the issue of confidentiality.  Some data elements may need to be protected.  Expanded scope is 
also an issue.  Further direction on how the run report committee is to proceed will be addressed by the 
advisory council.
Treasurer - James Terry
Dale Metz - Casselberry Fire Rescue
1st VP - Jim Judge
Neil Enos
OLD BUSINESS:
A discussion of the member mailing list ensued.  It was recognized that this is a very important aspect 
of the organization.  Each member needs to assist the board in keeping the list current and accurate.  It 
was identified as a priority to have the mailing list present at each meeting for member to review and 
initial.  This would also suffice as an attendance verification.
Dana Gaut reported on some of the aspects of the recent Futures Conference.  Dana conveyed that this is an 
exciting time for EMS but is also scary with many changes.  Florida may be lagging in areas of expanded 
scope.  One concern about expanded scope included the issue of skills and selectivity.  There will be no 
opportunity for providers or services to decide which skills they care to do and which skills they may find 
unattractive or inconvenient.  The state is going to look at the future of EMS at a conference in November.  
The futures coalition has not met since our last meeting.

Jim Judge relayed his recent experience with an immunization program.  Although the program has earned 
high marks from the community, expanded scope may take some real selling to field personnel.  These 
programs require an ongoing commitment with medical director support.
A primary objective in the committee's proposal will attempt to allow providers greater flexibility in 
applying system status management.   Concern was expressed regarding the potential for indiscriminate 
downgrading of units.  The comment was made that the current option of taking virtually all units out of 
service exits today with no required response criterion.  The committee is attempting to provide a systems 
approach solution and would prefer to avoid piecemeal solutions.
Bill Godfrey provided a report on legislative issues and the run report committee.  He expressed that 
the current thought was to dissolve the present committee.  The state would assign a new task group 
with a more narrow mission of dealing with the current environment and issues facing the run report.

Robert Sims reviewed some of the current concerns facing reporting to the state.  A significant 
problem includes the issue of confidentiality.  Some data elements may need to be protected.  
Expanded scope is also an issue.  Further direction on how the run report committee is to proceed will 
be addressed by the advisory council.
A short discussion on Falls Prevention for the Elderly was provided by David Jackobsons.  Jim Pollard 
developed the original information packet.  Jim Judge initiated a motion to support this program.  It 
was seconded and passed without discussion.  Jim reminded everyone that informational material is 
available.
The issue of funding sources for the newsletter was discussed.  A poll of the membership indicated 
that a majority of members would agree to receiving the Street News publication following 
the state meetings so that minutes of the meetings could be included.  This would save significantly on 
postage over a plan to mail minutes and the newsletter separately.
Jim Frazier announced nominations for new officers.  They were as follows:
Those nominated for the Herb Kimbal Award - Actions Above and Beyond the Call of 
Duty, include:
President - Jim Judge
1st Vice President - Robert Sims
No report
With a motion and second, the meeting was adjourned at 15:30.
Alfred Schroeder
Jim Judge introduced the idea that pre-meeting seminars be sponsored by AEMSP, possibly in 
cooperation with other interested constituency groups.  He proposed that the first of these seminars 
could be held prior to our West Palm meeting in October and offered to coordinate the class and 
instructor.  The proposed seminar for October is Total Quality Leadership.  The 
instructor for this proposed class is Mitchell Tyre who has taught at Florida Institute of Technology, 
Florida Atlantic University and BAER College.  

Doug Trawick made a motion to accept the proposal as described.  It was seconded by William Naylor 
and passed without further discussion.
Bill Meador
Dale Metz
Michael J. Auclair
Treasurer - Ray Colburn
Darrel Donatto - Riviera Beach Fire Rescue
Jim Judge - Indian River County EMS
This year's recipient was Doug Trawick.  Doug provided a short acceptance speech and expressed is 
gratitude in having been selected to receive the Al Ridgway award.
Last meetings minutes were reviewed with a typo, "George Danz" being the only correction.
Legislative Committee
Nominations were seconded by Doug Trawick and passed.
Dana Gaut and Gary Rainey reported on some of the aspects of the recent futures conference.  Dana 
conveyed that this is an exciting time for EMS but is also scary with many changes.  Florida may be 
lagging in areas of expanded scope.  The state is going to look at the future of EMS at a conference in 
November.  The futures coalition has not met since our last meeting.

Jim Judge relayed his recent experience with an immunization program.  Although the program has 
earned high marks from the community, expanded scope may take some real selling to field personnel.
Doug Trawick
Upon taking office, Jim Judge's first action as president was to encourage everyone to purchase AEMSP 
golf shirts!
Bill Layton - MRMC - Ocala

Bill Godfrey - Stuart Fire Rescue
The winner of the Herb Kimbal award was Jack McMillan.  The award was accepted on Jack's 
behalf.
Bill Godfrey, of the awards committee, provided a report to the board.  Award nominations for the Al 
Ridgway and Herb Kimbal awards were reviewed.  Certificates will be given to each person receiving 
nominations.  Bill will describe the nominations for the Herb Kimbal award and list names of the 
nominees for the Al Ridgway award.
Jim Judge expressed a sincere appreciation to outgoing President, Robert Bailey.  A plaque honoring his 
service was presented.
James Terry provided a treasures report.  A minor correction to the number of days in May was noted 
and Jim conveyed that current interest was not included in the report.  Jim agreed to take money from 
shirt sales.
President Bailey thanked Randy and Bill for their hard work on the awards committee.  Many nominations 
were received and the task of selecting the winners is always challenging.
Futures Coalition
Run Report Committee
Robert Sims - Escambia County EMS
Dr. Elliott McCurdy
Leeanna Mims - Longwood Fire Rescue
Meeting called to order by President Robert Bailey at 13:30.
Respectfully Submitted,
Dale Metz reported on the BBS.  It has been upgraded with a high speed modem purchased by 
FACEMS and callers can now access at 14,400 baud.  The number is (407) 263-7175.  A request by 
the Central Florida Fire Chiefs for possible co-sponsorship of the BBS was received favorably by the 
board.  Dale will also be looking into internet resources and opportunities for our organization in this 
area.
Bill Godfrey and Randy Vick presented the nominations for the Al Ridgway Award -
Excellence in Administration.  Those nominated were:
Dale Metz reported on the BBS.  It has been upgraded with a high speed modem purchased by 
FACEMS and callers can now access at 14,400 baud.  A request by the Central Florida Fire Chiefs for 
possible co-sponsorship of the BBS was received favorably by the board.  Dale will also be looking 
into internet resources and opportunities for our organization in this area.
Randy Vick - Bay Medical Center EMS
Lou Snelling
Return to AEMSP Homepage
Acting Secretary
Secretary
Leeanna Mims will provide a report to the general membership on the ALS permit issue.  Some 
discussion was held pertaining to the committee's progress in this area.  Gary Rainey had a question 
regarding ground and air ALS transport providers licensing and vehicle permits.
James Terry provided the treasures report commenting that $3.96 interest had accrued and is not reflected 
on the written report.  Motion to approve and seconded; passed without discussion.
Bill Hartley- State EMS Office
NEW BUSINESS
Gary Rainey - Fla. Professional Firefighters
Dayna Gaut - AMT
Election of Officers
William L. Naylor - South Pasadena Fire Dept
Jack McMillan
2nd Vice President - James Terry
Chic Price made a motion to endorse examining the concept of doing away with vehicle permits.  The 
motion was seconded and passed.  In further discussion, members were encourage to forward concerns to 
Dave Register at the State EMS office.
James Terry - Hialeah Fire Dept
Robert Bailey awarded Jim Judge, Robert Sims, James Terry and Ray Colburn with plaques honoring their 
service as officers this past year.
2nd VP - Robert Sims
Leeanna Mims reported on the status of the ALS vehicle permit committee.  The committee met to discuss 
various options and ideas and are beginning to define some options.  One option included doing away with 
vehicle permits and requiring a provider to identify the maximum number of ALS permitted units to
Last meeting's minutes were reviewed with a typo, "George Danz" being the only correction.  Motion to 
approve the minutes and seconded; passed with noted correction.
Secretary - Ray Colburn (absent)
Daniel Blundy
Robert Polk
Frank Kirk
The idea of getting sponsors to assist with the cost of the newsletter was discussed.  Dale Metz asked 
that other members and officers be involved in this process.  It was acknowledged that this can be time 
consuming but offers a means to publish our newsletter with reduced burden on our budget.
President Bailey introduced to the Executive Board, the concept of hiring or contracting  an executive 
director to assist with the management of AEMSP.  He indicated that FACEMS was going to look into 
this possibility and that it might be feasible to cooperatively contract with someone to do this.   A 
prime example of an important chore where such a company could be instrumental is the maintenance 
of our member mailing list.  The idea was perceived favorably by the board and specific information 
will be provided at future meetings.
Jim Frazier - Sarasota Fire-Rescue
Jim Judge introduced the idea that pre-meeting seminars be sponsored by AEMSP, possibly in 
cooperation with other interested constituency groups.  He proposed that the first of these seminars 
could be held prior to our West Palm meeting in October and offered to coordinate the class and 
instructor.  It was suggested that there would be no cost for the room and that fees could be charged to 
attendees who are not members of the sponsoring groups.  Robert Sims suggested that these classes 
could be seen as a real benefit to the membership when offered at a significantly reduced cost to 
members.

Jim also recommended that during these pre-meeting gatherings, we might coordinate product review 
sessions.  The purpose would include reviewing new products and sharing information and experience 
between providers in a round table forum.  President Bailey asked that these ideas be proposed to the 
general membership.
ALS Vehicle Permits
Dale C. Metz
Daniel J Cuoco