
The Breda News
Relatives and friend attended the funeral from Colfax, 
              West Des Moines, Varina, Marion, Sac City, Coon Rapids, Dedham, 
              Willey, Manilla, Carroll, Auburn, Arcadia, Vail, Cherokee, Maple 
              River, Mt. Carmel, Westside and Halbur.
Other priests in the sanctuary were the Revs. Henry 
              Meyer of Dedham, Francis Nemmers, Willey, J.P. Hausmann, and Dennis 
              Sefcik of Breda. Msgr. Doherty also conducted the graveside rites 
              at St. Bernard's Cemetery.
Requiem mass for Larry A. Nieland, 29, of Breda was 
              celebrated at 10:30 a.m. Friday in St. Bernard's Church here by 
              the Rev. Msgr. John C. Doherty.
The Fred F. and Norman J. Bruning Post 607, American 
              Legion formed an honor guard at the church and also accorded military 
              honors at the cemetery, under command of Ed Polking.
Pallbearers were Alfred Schroeder, Irwin, Snyder, 
              Lowell Wuebker, Joe Fossing, Henry Freking and John Wittry.
A son of Lawrence Nieland, he was born at Carroll, 
              June 25, 1942, and spent his youth in the Breda vicinity. He graduated 
              from St. Bernard's High School, Breda, and Catholic University, 
              Washington, D.C. In 1965 he entered the U.S. Army and spent a year 
              and a half in the Saigon vicinity of Vietnam. Following his discharge 
              in 1967 he returned to Breda and was engaged in farming five miles 
              southeast of Breda. He was a member of St. Bernard parish and of 
              the local American Legion post.
The Sharp Funeral Home of Breda was in charge of arrangements.

return 
              to Obituary Index
Lawrence Nieland Jr.  1942 - 1972
Surviving are his parents, of Breda and the following 
              brothers and sisters: Eugene of Breda; Mrs. Leon (Ruth) Tigges of 
              Carroll; Mrs. Peter (Lois) Cousseau, of New York, N.Y.; Sr. Ione 
              Nieland of St. Joseph School, Dedham; Mrs. Tom (Ethel) Unger of 
              Silverton, Ore.; and Duane at home.
Mr. Nieland was killed in an accident on the farm 
              of his brother, Eugene Nieland, southeast of Breda Tuesday morning, 
              April 18.