
From sophisticated seafood to potent mixed drinks to kiddie food, Fish Tales has it all. It is family run and true to form they don't forget about the little ones.
Next up at the Marina is the 13th annual Capt. Steve Harman's Poor Girls Open, which is Aug. 17-19. The event will support The American Cancer Society, Breast Cancer Research and Support.
Imagine warm sand, a cool breeze off the bay, the sun setting slowly and fresh tuna on the way. Harman said Fish Tales has an impressive menu, but the tuna is their signature dish. Grilled or blackened you can't go wrong with tuna from Fish Tales.
"I have the best staff in Ocean City," Harman said. "They are one big family."
"We're family oriented. We cater to children," said Harman. And she would know, having two of her own who work at Fish Tales. Her son works in the kitchen and her daughter as a hostess.
The biggest challenge to running the hugely successful business is pleasing everyone. Tourists don't mind the usual hour-and-half wait for dinner, Harman said, but locals do and they remember when Fish Tales was a just a small bar on the bay.
OCEAN CITY -- Fish Tales' outdoor ambience can't be beat. On a warm evening the Ocean City hot spot packs in the patrons. From babies to bikers this booming business has a little something for everyone, including the little ones.
The Fish Tales family has had a lot of happy memories over the years, but one thing that stands out in Harman's mind is Christmas in July. On July 25, Santa rides in on the bay and hands out gifts to all the children. Fish Tales decorates with Christmas trees and gets in the spirit with Christmas music all day long. She said each year the event gets bigger.
For more information on the tournaments or on Fish Tales, visit www.ocfishtales.com.
Now Fish Tales is a large open air facility located on the bay, next to Bahia Marina. Guests of Fish Tales can get front row seats to sunsets and boats docking.
"It's so versatile here you get everyone and keeping everyone happy is difficult," Donna Harman said.
Not in the mood for seafood, no worries. Fish Tales has plenty of other offerings.
Order up the tuna steak the way you like it. Pick toppings and get it served on a kaiser roll and cusabi on the side and you can't go wrong.
Other trademark Fish Tales events include the annual OC Rocktoberfest, which will be held Oct. 21-22. Participants are invited to fish for everything from sea trout to flounder.
Originally published Friday, August 11, 2006
Not in the mood for tuna? Try some rockfish. The Rock & Roll is a 6-ounce rockfish fillet with secret spices. It can be broiled or fried and is served on a kaiser roll.
Harman even used to run a day care and that's what inspired the playground at Fish Tales. The outdoor bar and grill features a sand playground complete with a pirate boat where kids can play while mom and dad relax.
Try the grilled barbecue chicken that's dripping with barbecue sauce and covered in juicy bacon and melted provolone cheese. Another Fish Tales pleaser is The Big Tale. This tasty treat is served on Italian Ciabatta bread with Genoa salami, Cappicola ham, prosciutto ham and provolone cheese. The whole thing is topped off with lettuce, tomato, hot and sweet peppers, onions, oil and vinegar and roasted peppers.
Donna Harman and husband Shawn own and operate Fish Tales along with Sean's mother, Kathleen, Sean's brother, Stacey, and his wife, Enath. A longtime staple in Ocean City life, the restaurant and bar has been open for nearly 35 years, and they cater to everyone.
Even though on busy nights there's a wait and Fish Tales doesn't take reservations, the scenery and fine fare make it well worth the wait. Any passerby can breathe in the wonderful smells wafting through the air.

"Once the sand came the toys stayed and we kept getting more," Harman said.
In addition to being family oriented, Fish Tales feels like a family, Harman added. Fish Tales employs about 150 people and Harman said many have been coming back for nine or 10 years.