
Government manipulation of exchange
rates for the purpose of gaining a competitive advantage for local industry can
substantially offset the balance of benefits U.S. trade negotiators achieve in
any trade agreement.  The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) Article
XV, now incorporated within the WTO, addresses Exchange Arrangements and 
stipulates that members should not take exchange rate actions which "frustrate 
the intent of the provisions of this Agreement", namely, negotiated reduction of 
tariffs and other barriers to trade.  For this reason, AF&PA urges the 
Administration to initiate formal negotiations on an expedited basis for the 
purpose of ending China’s currency manipulation.
SUBSIDIES
U.S. exports to China of paper and paperboard
reached $491 million in 2004, up from $328 million in 2001.  While this is a
healthy increase and reflects China’s rising paper and paperboard consumption and overall reduction
in tariffs, the longer term prognosis is not positive as China’s production capacity is
rising at a rapid pace and is displacing imports in key paper and paperboard
grades.  Over the same time period, U.S. paper and paperboard imports from China 
more than doubled, from $635 million to $1.3 billion last year.
ANTIDUMPING PROCEEDINGS
China has used antidumping
investigations to protect inefficient producers and to reduce import
competition for new manufacturing capacity.  On March 31, 2004, China initiated an antidumping investigation against U.S. unbleached kraft linerboard – the
raw material used in the manufacture of corrugated shipping containers.  If China
proceeds to impose antidumping duties on U.S. kraft linerboard, it would severely
impact more than $115 million in U.S. exports to that country.
CONCLUSION:
AF&PA agrees with the Administration that China
has made important strides in meeting its WTO obligations.  However, the
benefits of the economic relationship with China have been largely one sided,
with China continuing to maintain a range of industrial policies that
significantly reduce export opportunities for U.S. industry and give Chinese
producers an unfair advantage in the U.S. and third country markets.  The
Administration needs to address the critical issues of subsidies, currency
manipulation, and illegal logging in both bilateral negotiations with China and
in the WTO, as appropriate.  AF&PA believes the Congress can take action in
the short-term by passing H.R. 1216 and S. 593 to clarify the intent of
Congress by expressly providing for the application of CVD provisions to China
and other NMEs.  In addition, we urge the Congress to consider other WTO
compliant measures that would to encourage swift action on the part of the
Chinese government to revalue their currency.
To
supply China’s massive paper and
paperboard capacity growth, Chinese producers have had to turn to foreign
supplies to meet their fiber needs.  The results have been skyrocketing demand
for imported wood pulp and recovered paper.  In particular, the U.S. has become the main
source of China’s recovered paper
imports, affecting the U.S. market for certain recovered paper grades.  U.S. recovered paper exports
to China rose from just 1 million metric tons in 1998 to 5.9 million metric
tons in 2004, representing 13 percent of total U.S. paper recovery.
This is the third Chinese antidumping investigation against U.S.
paper products in the past six years and follows a pattern where such
investigations are launched against imports of paper products that are
experiencing significant growth in domestic manufacturing capacity.  Indeed, in this case there is no evidence that the domestic
Chinese linerboard producers identified in the petition are in any way
injured.  Based on publicly available information, all the identified producers
are profitable, have ready access to capital, are expanding rapidly, and
increasing market share.  It would be especially egregious should China
stop imports of U.S. kraft linerboard that is primarily used to package China’s
massive exports to the United States that have resulted in the U.S. bilateral
trade deficit with China which exceeded a record $160 billion last year.
AF&PA appreciates this opportunity to provide comments on this issue.  
Please do not hesitate to contact us for further information regarding this 
submission.
Statement of Donna Harman, American Forest & Paper Association
China’s domestic forest products
industry faces a large fiber supply gap due to insufficient domestic forest
resources and strong growth in demand for wood, pulp and paper to fuel both the
domestic market and exports.  To assist the domestic industry, the Chinese
government has implemented a number of policy measures aimed at better
balancing China’s fiber supply with domestic fiber demand over the long-term as
well as reducing dependence on imported processed wood and paper products.
CURRENCY
MANIPULATION
ILLEGAL
LOGGING/SMUGGLING
With a stated objective of
encouraging domestic investment and expansion in value-added forest products
processing industries, China has expanded its production capabilities in many
valued-added paper and wood processing enterprises.  Many of the measures used
to achieve this rapid industry development include certain subsidy related
measures that may be in violation of WTO rules.  In particular:
FORESTS PRODUCTS TRADE WITH CHINA
While USTR has
expressed concerns over China’s subsidies practices in the WTO, U.S.
industries have not been able to resort to the use of countervailing duty (CVD)
law to such subsidy practices.  Since 1984, the U.S. Commerce Department has
not applied CVD law to non- market economies (NMEs) such as China, even
though the WTO does not prohibit the application of CVD law to NMEs. 
AF&PA, and a large group of U.S. industries, supports H.R. 1216 and S. 593 to clarify
the intent of Congress by expressly providing for the application of CVD
provisions to China and other NMEs.
While a
preliminary determination is still pending more than one year after the
initiation of the investigation, AF&PA would like to highlight two
particular issues:
China is a major market for U.S.
wood products, particularly for hardwoods used domestically in architectural
applications and flooring.  U.S. hardwoods are also used for furniture, picture
frames and other manufactured wood articles exported back to the U.S., and to Europe
and other markets.  As it currently stands, China is now the fourth largest
importer of all wood products; the largest importer of logs and the world’s
second largest plywood producer, behind the United States.  U.S. wood product
exports to China rose from $140 million in 2001 to $378 million in 2004. The U.S.
is the fourth largest supplier of wood products to China, behind Russia, Malaysia
and Indonesia.
The effect of the significant
undervaluation of the Yuan has impacted more than just the trade balance.  China’s
accumulation of dollar reserves means that for every dollar the Central Bank of
  China purchases it is creating 8.28 new Yuan.  As a result, China’s money
supply is growing at a rapid pace, providing a large source of cheap funds for
investment in massive manufacturing capacity including in the paper and wood
sectors.
Compounding the problem is that illegally
logged wood is frequently smuggled into mainland China in an effort to
avoid the 17% VAT, or is
sent to a third country where it is processed and then re-exported to China.  The smuggling activity is putting U.S. 
exporters at a competitive price disadvantage.  Progress is being made in 
shutting down smuggling operations, but concern still exists over the presence 
of illegally logged wood in the marketplace.
AF&PA has consulted with USTR and the
Department of Commerce on these findings.  Last fall, the U.S. submitted a
series of questions to China in the WTO regarding China’s subsidy practices,
including subsidies to the forest products sector.  The Chinese government
committed to respond to the U.S. questions regarding its subsidy practices by
the end of 2005.
Last year, AF&PA completed the
study “China’s Subsidization of its Forest Products Industry”, which
examines and documents the various financial, trade and policy measures that
the Chinese government is using to build its pulp, paper and wood processing
industries and supporting fiber resources.  The study found that the Chinese
government is employing an array of industrial policy tools -- especially
subsidies -- to prop up state-owned enterprises, promote the introduction of
new technology, and build new production capacity.  Some key findings from the
study:
The American Forest & Paper
Association (AF&PA) appreciates this opportunity to present the forest and
paper products industry’s views regarding United States-China Economic
Relations & China’s Role in the World Economy.  AF&PA is the national trade association of
the forest, pulp, paper, paperboard and wood products industry.  The forest and
paper products industry accounts for more than 7 percent of total U.S.
manufacturing output and ranks among the top ten manufacturing employers in 42
states.  The more than 200 companies and related associations AF&PA
represents have a strong interest in making sure that commitments made by China
are met from the outset to establish a solid basis for the continued growth of
business and economic opportunities.
Under its WTO accession agreement, China
committed to open up its market across the board by reducing tariffs and other
impediments to trade.  However, China effectively has nullified this commitment
by engaging in protracted large-scale build-up of foreign exchange in order to
keep its currency, the Yuan, at a fixed exchange rate of 8.28 Yuan to the U.S.
Dollar for the past ten years.  This exchange rate level is significantly
weaker than the Yuan would be otherwise based on international market forces
alone.  Many economists estimate that China’s currency is undervalued by some
40 percent.  As a result, U.S. exporters of forest and paper products, as well
as other U.S. exporters, have been at a significant competitive disadvantage
when doing business in the Chinese market or when competing in the U.S. or
third country markets against Chinese products.
AF&PA was a strong supporter of
Permanent Normal Trade Relations for China, and of China’s accession to the
WTO.  Our industry’s support was based on the prospect that China’s rapid
economic growth would generate strong demand for U.S. exports of paper and wood
products.  At the same time, we recognized that the expectation of market
opportunities could only be achieved if China implements commitments to open up
its market and removes trade barriers--which were a condition of its accession
to the WTO.
While China has made progress
toward becoming a market economy, the Chinese government has been employing an
array of industrial policy tools to grow its manufacturing capacity and become
a top supplier of manufactured products to the world. In the forest products
sector, this has resulted in the rapid expansion of China’s paper and wood
production.  Consequently, there has been a substantial drop in market
opportunities for U.S. manufacturers and rapid growth in China’s exports of
paper and wood products.  This is particularly troubling since China doesn’t
have the large fiber resource base needed for a competitive forest products
industry, and is almost wholly dependent on imported fiber in the form of logs
and other wood products, wood pulp and recovered paper.
Of growing
concern is the amount of illegally harvested timber that may be entering the China
market.  International environmental
agencies have documented significant discrepancies between China’s
import statistics and the export statistics of some of China’s
wood trading partners, particularly
in border areas with Myanmar and Russia.  Illegal logging affects not just the health of
the forest in particularly sensitive regions, but also undermines public
acceptance of commerce in legally harvested and traded forest products.  U.S.
trade opportunities in China are directly affected by the abundance of
inexpensive, illegally harvested timber.  Points raised in a study recently
commissioned by AF&PA, Illegal Logging and Global Wood Markets: The
Competitive Impact on the U.S. Wood Products Industry (November 2004) include: