
Alice Mary Lemanski, early woman doctor who overcame barriers
Even after school advisors warned Alice Mary Lemanski that medicine was a "man's world" and discouraged her from studying
                  it, she forged ahead, becoming the first woman pediatrician in Los Altos. She went on to earn the respect of her male colleagues
                  and the admiration of her patients, serving countless generations of families throughout Los Altos.
Dr. Lemanski worked her way through Madison College in Milwaukee, ironing shirts. She moved to Los Altos in 1952, where she
                  opened her practice in a room that she rented above Sammy Kahn's pharmacy on Main Street. Fenney said that was quite a feat
                  during that time period - the same time period in which Dr. Lemanski was refused a home loan because she was a woman.
It wasn't long before Dr. Lemanski's name became common place among families living along the Peninsula, Fenney said. Dr.
                  Lemanski treated the longtime Los Altos Furuichi family to children of the Forty-niners.
Fenney said Dr. Lemanski would regularly make house calls and visit her patients in the hospital two to three times a day.
Fenney said Dr. Lemanski's patients knew that she collected dolls, so they would bring dolls to her from around the world.
                  Dr. Lemanski built a giant cabinet in her office to display the dolls and help distract young, nervous children, she said.
The longtime Los Altos Hills resident died Feb. 22. She was 81.
Friends described Dr. Lemanski as a "humble, caring, self-made person."
"Her work was her life," said Dr. Lemanski's longtime friend and medical assistant, Dorothy Fenney. "She was an excellent
                  doctor, very conscientious. She knew her patients. They were not numbers."
Fenney said Dr. Lemanski was also known for her poodles, which rode in the back seat of her Cadillac and would accompany her
                  to the office each day.
Dr. Lemanski is survived by her siblings, Marcie and Larry Lemanski; several nieces and nephews; and her longtime friend,
                  Dorothy Fenney.
Raised with seven siblings on a farm in Wisconsin, Dr. Lemanski knew early on that she wanted to become a doctor, Fenney said.
                  She initially wanted to become a surgeon. She played violin and was good with her hands, Fenney said.
A Mass of Christian burial was celebrated March 1 at St. Nicholas Church in Los Altos.
printer friendly version
"She was, above all, reassuring and unflappable when confronted with anything from colic to appendicitis," Barnes said.
Los Altos resident Carolyn Barnes said she will always hold a special appreciation for Dr. Lemanski, who stayed by her side
                  throughout the long delivery of her first baby.