
10.
        Anything pertinent you'd like to say about Songsalive!
I'm crossing my fingers, but I am
        hoping to release my first full-length album, "Coal Miner's
        Granddaughter," on my record label, Painted Girl, by the end of
        this year or beginning of 2004.  (Yes, I am a coal miner's
        granddaughter.)  At this time, I am a completely DIY artist so
        getting the time to do everything can be tough.  I will be
        graduating from the University of Phoenix Online with an MBA in
        e-Business in December, so I am looking forward to having the extra time
        to devote to songwriting, promotion, and touring.  Over the next
        five years, I hope to record 2 to 3 more albums and travel the U.S. and
        Canada promoting my music.  I would eventually like to travel to
        Europe, Australia, and Asia.   My main goal is to share my
        music with the world and become a better songwriter in the process.
2. What style of music would you say you
        do?
I think there are some big
        changes going on in the music industry right now.  The cost of
        getting your music to a world wide audience and scouting talent is
        getting lower due to new and often controversial technologies. 
        It also seems that there are many new businesses dedicated to helping
        songwriters and musicians.  There is a new community of
        independent, Internet-oriented musicians and music industry
        professionals that the major labels only want to ignore.  Artists
        that are empowered by technology.  Independent musicians and record
        labels are becoming major contenders by releasing quality music, and
        they pose a threat to the major record labels.  The major labels
        are also ignoring the 25-50+ year old marketing demographic.  These
        consumers want intellectually stimulating and socially compelling
        music, which many independent artists write and perform.  With the
        growing popularity of the Internet throughout the world, we are seeing a
        fundamental shift in the way that business is conducted, which forces
        industries to adopt new business models.  The way the music industry operates
        now is a thing of the past, and its seems as if the major labels are
        trapped in a paradigm that is no longer relevant.  In the
        music industry of the future, there will be no distinguishing between
        e-Business and brick-and-mortar companies.  Those organizations
        that want to stay afloat in the new e-Business-oriented music industry
        must learn to utilize present and future technologies and business
        strategies in the most efficient and effective ways possible, rather
        than fighting the inevitable merging of e-Business with more traditional
        business models.
It seems like my newest songs are always
        my favorite.  I'm finishing up a song right now that I think will
        be my new favorite, but my favorite song of the moment is "Fly
        Away."  The song is about how everyone has to deal with
        problems, and we all have bad days.  When I have a problem, I
        meditate or try to take myself mentally out of the situation to get a
        clearer view. I fly away. The song is about putting things into
        perspective.
4. Who are your musicial influences?
I'm originally from
        Springfield, IL.  In 1998, I came to Phoenix to attend school at
        the Conservatory of Recording Arts & Sciences.  Since I
        performed in Illinois, I wanted to get involved with the music scene in
        Arizona.  I liked the diversity of music here in Phoenix, and I
        began booking gigs and performing shortly after moving here.  Toni
        Koch was a great help in getting me shows.  I met her through my
        promotion internship with Evening Star (now Clear Channel).
Check out our other
Songsalive! members
6. What are your goals for the next 5
        years musically speaking?

7. Tell us about your recordings and
        what's in store next.
My style has changed over the years
        ranging from adult contemporary to pop/surf punk.  I also write
        classical music from time to time.  After playing with a band for
        two years, I am back to playing solo, and my music seems to be more
        adult alternative with a jazz/urban influence.
8. Where can we buy your music?

            You can buy my demo/EPs at http://www.mp3.com/marylemanski.
Back to Interviews
9. What
        are your views about where the music industry is heading in your
        community, or on a global level?
I am proud to be a member of Songsalive!
        and the Phoenix coordinator for the organization.  After performing
        at an L.A. Songsalive! Showcase and attending the Songsalive! Expo 2002,
        I was really impressed with the quality of the speakers, the talented
        musicians that performed, and how dedicated everyone was to making the
        event a success.  I think that every songwriter should take
        advantage of the services that Songsalive! offers.  Great
        organization!
Mary Lemanski
I currently have three
        demo/EPs.  They are "Six Songs Just for You," "Open
        Dress Rehearsal," and "Mary Lemanski & the Addicktives:
        Live at the Phoenix Hard Rock Cafe."  I am hoping to release
        my first full-length album, "Coal Miner's Granddaughter," on
        Painted Girl Records sometime this fall or early next year.  I
        would also like to do some touring next year as well.
3. What do you enjoy best - songwriting
        or performing and why?
1. Where are you from, originally and
        what brought you to write and perform
        in Phoenix AZ ?
INTERVIEW with
September 03 MEMBER OF THE
MONTH:
5. Describe your favorite song you have
        written and why is it so special to you?
I listen to all types
        of music from classical to punk and metal.  However, right now, I
        would say that my music is influenced by Kate Bush, Tori Amos, The Cars,
        and P-Funk