
There are plenty of not-so-common activities too. You can take a tether ride with Freedom Flight hot air balloons from 6 to 8 p.m., or watch a tattoo or glass-blowing demonstration, New York caliber performance art, Zander Villayne's new film Bluesman, or art made before your eyes from recycled materials. The world-respected Stroia Ballet will perform "Divertimento." There will also be modern dance by Body Prayers Dance Troupe and World Dance and Global Dance club. Don't forget the Parade of the Little People from 1 to 2 p.m.!
The Music? You can expect darn near anything. The morning starts out with a gospel choir, and continues with jazz great George Cartwright, world-renowned violinist Cristina Seaborn, West African native YAWO, the rhythmic dancing fun of Stearns County Pachanga Society, VH1 songwriter-of-the-year runner-up Mary Lemanski, roots-inspored soul folk artist trueboy, Uniite performing world based improv with classical pianist Mark Ochu, Al's Music teacher Mary Swank, up-and-coming folkster Tim Thole, veteran folkster Jimmy Dale Royal, published poets John "Doc" Smith, Maureen Skelly, Mary Willette-Hughes and Roy McBride, all-female punk band Eufio, Chicago transplant Little Man, Saint Paul's mega performing arts troupe F.I.R.E., Celtic-influenced work-in-progress Felonius Bosch, local Celtic-influenced group Ring of Kerry, and the world-wise rhythm section and the genre-bending saxophonics of 56 Hope Road.
The Workshops? There are five different writing workshops for all ages, ranging from "Spoken Word for Everyone Ages 2 and Up" to "How to use Poetry for Inspiration, Insight, and Personal Growth." Perhaps you are interested in learning how to play penny whistle, bodhran drum, or hammered dulcimer. You can check out the beginning belly dance, yoga or tai chi. Experience the potter's wheel, learn about stained glass, paper making, politics for beginners, or "ten natural ways to boost energy, health and vitality." Make a dreamcatcher, write a story, learn about journalism, or learn to sing!!!

One World Festival Program

Muse magazine, the Paramount Arts District, and Zepicon productions present:
The Art? We will be showcasing the finest in visual and interactive arts including Pamela "Tootsie" McIntosh. "Tootsie," as she is affectionately known, is a gifted world class painter and visual artist. You can meet with her from 3 to 5 p.m. and view her paintings, furniture and mosaic work. There will be beautiful artisan vending such as pottery, stained glass, clothing and jewelry. There will also be art demos held throughout the entire extravaganza.

Now available: the complete transcript of our Muse-exclusive interview with the talent behind the George Maurer Trio.

You can find more information and the schedule for the entire event online at www.themindjam.com or by clicking here.
Click here for the complete schedule, listings and bios of One World performers, artists and presenters.

The Food? Try something new! Everything from Mexican to Thai, Mediterranean to American, you name it! Experience a portabello mushroom sandwich or a Mediterranean samosa. You will find great coffee, tea, and a variety of libations throughout hthe downtown area and great specials at participating restaurants.

Thank you for supporting the Arts!
Click here for a calendar of this month's events presented by our member organizations!
Now available: Check out our new and improved Muse gallery for Muse-exclusive galleries of work and photos from this issue's featured artists Charles Norwood, roGer, and Paul Epple.
One World participating locati
ons are the Paramount Arts District, Holy Angels Performing Arts Center at Cathedral, The Oasis Fine Art Gallery, Yoga and Living Arts Studio, The Rox, The Tavern on Germain, Press Bar and Parlor, Radisson Lounge, Bo Diddley's, Great Times Bistro, Studio 505, Twisted Tattoo, St. Cloud Library, Books Revisited, Herberger's, Java Joint, Cheap Thrills, MC's Dugout, DB Searle's, Rumrunners and the Electric Fetus.
Tickets are on sale now at the Paramount box office, Al's Music, the Electric Fetus, SCSU - Atwood Memorial Center, Movies Etc., Cheap Thrills and Book-Ems. (Advance tickets are highly recommended.

The One World Festival is a fund-raiser for the Paramount Arts District.