
Over the next decade, 
        Borgman helped create and design some of the nation's first on-line digital-library 
        system. She participated in buliding the first campus-based information 
        system at Pitt, as well as the first newspaper database to go online, 
        a full-text database of The New York Times. She then moved to Dallas, 
        where she became the system analyst for the Dallas Public Library and 
        created the first on-line catalog of a major public library. In the early 
        1980s, she went to Stanford University to pursue her doctoral work and 
        wrote her thesis on mental models of informaiton-retrieval systems. "A 
        mental model is a cognitive construction," she explains. "How 
        do people think about what's heppening in side the machine? The appropriateness 
        of the model has a lot to do with whether you figure out how to use the 
        machine."
[previous page] [main]
[next 
        page]
She came to UCLA 
        in 1983 and since then has been working on information-retrieval systems 
        and user interfaces and user behavior. "Basically we're trying to 
        understand how people search for information; how people use information 
        and how you can design systems to support their natural behavior. "Basically 
        we're trying to understand how people search for information; how people 
        use information and how you can design systems to support their natural 
        behaviror," she explains. "We start with the behavior and then 
        design systems, rather than starting with the technology and trying to 
        fit it to people or make the people fit the technology, which is unfortunately 
        more often the case."
"You 
        can't just put computers in everybody's hands, give all the students a 
        laptop and access to the Internet and expect them to learn better," 
        insists Christine Borgman, professor of information studies. "It's 
        not a matter of giving people more information, but how to package that 
        information, how to organize and disseminate it."
The ADEPT tools will 
        be known as Information Landscape, or "Iscapes," and will be 
        bulit around scenarios. How do you manage this flood in Topanga Canyon, 
        for instance. Or how do you look at this migration throught Northern California? 
        "You might build a lesson around the flood, then put a series of 
        data sets behind it, using data collected from NASA and local and state 
        authorities. You layer that data and then give students tools so they 
        can say what happens if there is more rain or less rain, good hill-side 
        plantings, dams built, an earthquake. They can manipulate all these different 
        conditions and see what happens."
By the time funding 
        ends in 2004, Borgman and her colleges hope to understsand how to maximize 
        the use of Iscape-type tools and how to teach with them. "We hope 
        to get baseline data by the end of the year, to start having tools we 
        can use for lectures by the second year and tools students can use by 
        the third year. In the end, we'll have learned how to take these same 
        tools and apply them to other fields across education -- everything from 
        urban planning to sociology, history, art."
Funded by a collaboration 
        of eight federal agencies and disciplines -- from the Library of Congress 
        and the Smithsonian to the National Science Foundation, NASA, and the 
        Advanced Research Project Agency -- ADEPT was launched in 1999 to provide 
        learning tools and techniques that then overlay, organize and expand upon 
        the information contained within the Digital Earth database. "ADEPT 
        will provide a series of tools for manipulating and visualizing geo-referenced 
        data -- specifically, tools that can be used for instruction at an undergraduate 
        level," explains Borgman. "At UCLA, we're starting with undergraduate 
        geography courses."
Christine 
          Borgman: Massaging the Message
As Borgman notes, 
        "Ultimately, it's not about the technology, it's about the behavior."
The project was seemingly 
        tailor-made for Borgman, the daughter of a librarian who literally grew 
        up in the back stacks of Detroit's Wayne State University Library. Later, 
        as an undergraduate, she studied mathematics before studying for a master's 
        in library and information sciences at the University of Pittsburgh. "It 
        was the early 1970s, the dawn of the computer age," recalls Borgman. 
        "I recognized that library were going to neeed people with much more 
        technical backgrounds to build information systems."
"Think of the 
        Digital Earth as a metaphor, as a way to organize information," explains 
        Borgman. "You can click on any spot on the globe and access any information 
        that can be referenced geographically, whether it's census data, flood 
        data, crop data, population movements, toxic-waste flows, even historical 
        texts."
ADEPT is still at 
        the conceptual level, but the plan is to give geography instructors tools 
        to help students move away from memorizing facts and, instead, concentrate 
        on understanding dynamic processes. "It's more important that the 
        student understand how rivers change over time or how populations move 
        than to memorize facts about how and when they moved," says Borgman. 
        "The more you can understand about the process, the richer the learning 
        experience and the more you can apply in new ways."
The holder of the 
        Presidential Chair in Information Studies at UCLA, Borgman is UCLA's lead 
        investigator for the national Alexandria Digital Earth ProtoType project, 
        or ADEPT. The project began in 1994 as the Alexandria Digital Library 
        Project, a four-year, $4-million initiative to gather a massive amount 
        of informaiton about the Earth using digital collections of everything 
        from maps and images to text and multimedia diagrams, all referenced by 
        geographical area. The resulting information was used to create a digital 
        model of the planet -- a "Digital Earth," as Vice President 
        Al Gore dubbed it.