
Christine L. Borgman
Two problems that Borgman returns to in her last chapter are digital
      preservation and scalability. Digital preservation is mentioned repeatedly
      throughout the book as a serious issue, especially in chapter 7 where she
      notes that the issue often raises more questions than answers. In chapter
      9, she also speculates on the scalability of existing networks (e.g. the
      Internet) to support the development of a global information
      infrastructure. These concerns, again, are to some extent technological,
      but Borgman notes that there are also a range of legal, economic and
      political problems that will also need to be addressed. In this chapter,
      Borgman also includes a 'case study' of Central and Eastern Europe based
      on research carried out in Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland,
      Slovakia and Slovenia throughout the 1990s. This section will probably be
      useful for those who have an interest in this particular geographical
      region, but it doesn't necessarily cohere well with the rest of the book.
Inevitably, the book - with the exception of the case study covering
      Central and Eastern Europe - has a North American flavour, but this is not
      a big problem. More serious is the lack of consideration of the related
      concerns of archives and museums, except in a small part of chapter 7. I
      was also surprised that the discussion of cataloguing rules and standards
      in chapter 7 didn't mention the report of the IFLA Study Group on the
      Functional Requirements for Bibliographic Records [2] and other recent
      developments.
The book contains summaries at the end of each chapter, an index and
      forty-pages of references. This list alone would provide a good starting
      point for students and others who are interested in pursuing the issues
      raised in the book further.
The book contains a few mistakes. For example, PDF (p. 155) should be
      the Portable Document Format, while the "British National Lending
      Library at Boston Spa" (pp. 175-6) presumably refers to the British
      Library Document Supply Centre (BLDSC). There are also some
      inconsistencies in the presentation of URLs in the references; i.e., some
      missing punctuation and inappropriate capitalisation. These small items,
      however, do not detract from the generally good quality of the book's
      production.
In short, this is an excellent book. It introduces a wide range of
      issues that relate to the development of digital libraries and a future
      global information infrastructure. It should be read by all of those
      people who have an interest in digital libraries and their development,
      whether practitioners, researchers or students.
In her first three chapters, Borgman spends some time defining key terms
      and introducing some important issues. In chapter 1, for example, she
      gives a very broad definition of what she means by a global information
      infrastructure: "a technical framework of computing and
      communications technologies, information content, services, and people,
      all of which interact in complex and often unpredictable ways".
      Chapters 2 and 3 define various meanings of the terms 'digital library'
      and 'access to information.' Chapter 3 in particular contains a very good
      introduction to metadata and its various uses. Throughout all of this,
      Borgman makes it clear that she is not just interested in technological
      issues, but in the full range of economic, legal and societal factors that
      can influence access to information in the networked world.
Christine Borgman's book From Gutenberg to the global information
      infrastructure was published in March 2000 in the Digital Libraries
      and Electronic Publishing series edited by William Arms. The book is an
      excellent introduction to a wide range of issues related to the
      development of digital libraries and to what is called here a 'global
      information infrastructure.' It is possible that some readers approaching
      a book with this title might be led to expect a historical review of the
      development of information technologies since the fifteenth-century. 
      However, in this book the term 'Gutenberg' is used as a kind of shorthand
      for 'print-culture' - a usage popularised by Marshall McLuhan in his 1962
      book The Gutenberg galaxy [1]. As is often the case, the book's
      subtitle - access to information in the networked world - gives a
      better indication of its content.
Christine L. Borgman, From Gutenberg to the global information
      infrastructure: access to information in the networked world.
      Cambridge, Mass., London: MIT Press, 2000. xviii, 324 pp. £27.95.
      ISBN 0-262-02473-X.
One major theme of the whole book is that of 'co-evolutionary' change.
      Borgman takes a via media between those who argue that the
      development of online access to information resources will have
      revolutionary consequences and those who argue that any changes will be
      evolutionary, and that existing institutions (e.g. libraries, publishers,
      etc.) are likely to survive in some form. She feels that the most likely
      future is co-evolutionary; people will adopt new technologies when they
      feel that they are appropriate but will not discard all of their older
      habits. Later on in the book, Borgman points out that the development of
      printing didn't completely destroy communication through oral tradition or
      the art of handwriting, and in another chapter notes that - at the moment
      - electronic forms of communication complements, rather than replaces,
      many aspects of face-to-face communication. A second major theme of the
      book is that of usability. Borgman devotes two chapters to this issue and
      outlines various themes of a potential research agenda.
That said, this book is very good. Chapter 7, in particular, is an
      excellent assessment of where libraries stand on the threshold of the
      twenty-first century. It stresses that debates about the future of
      libraries are not really about libraries at all, but about how to best
      facilitate public access to information. The issues that are covered (all
      too briefly) by the chapter includes: national libraries and legal
      deposit, the sharing of cataloguing information, metadata standards and
      content rules and the role of the library as a physical space. It also
      mentions the potential impact of intellectual property laws on information
      access in libraries. Borgman notes that "finding the balance between
      the rights of citizens and the rights of producers may be the greatest
      challenge we face in providing access to information in democratic
      societies."
The next few chapters broadly cover the life cycle of information, the
      use of digital libraries and a more detailed analysis of the role of
      libraries as institutions. These chapters introduce a very wide range of
      issues: the role of libraries in selecting, preserving and giving access
      to content, the usability of systems and institutions, information seeking
      behaviour, the differences between novice and expert search strategies,
      interoperability, etc. Chapter 8 concentrates on how system designers need
      to focus on the identified needs of their content and target audience
      while also being aware that there may also be a broader global audience
      for their service.