
Dr. Christine Borgman
Week 8 (Feb 27):Qualitative data analysis – part 1
Part 3, Modes of observation
Linda Brodkey. (1987). Academic Writing as Social Practice (especially 
        Chapter 4: Narrative Perspectives in Ethnographies: Writers and Texts). 
        Philadelphia, PA: Temple University Press.
They operate within the College of Letters and Sciences, and are mainly 
        interested in computational and applied statistics. They offer different 
        consulting options (http://www.stat.ucla.edu/consult/), 
        including two forms of free consulting (see: http://www.stat.ucla.edu/consult/free.php).
James Clifford & George Marcus. (Eds). (1986). Writing Culture: the 
        Poetics and Politics of Ethnography. Berkeley : University of California 
        Press. (Focus is on ethnography, but I really liked their perspective 
        on how to write qualititative research, and how to be aware of your biases).
4: Research design, 90-117
The course will begin with a general overview of topics plus a review 
        of concepts covered in 291 and 291A and of basic statistics.
2: Evaluating data sites, 16-30
7: The logic of sampling, 175-213
Part 3, Modes of observation, 215
Week 1 (Jan 9): Course introduction and overview
Talking City Trouble: Interactional Vandalism, Social Inequality, and 
        the "Urban Interaction Problem" 
        Mitchell Duneier; Harvey Molotch 
        American Journal of Sociology, Vol. 104, No. 5. (Mar., 1999), pp. 1263-1295.
        Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/view/00029602/di000031/00p0321m/0
13: Qualitative data analysis, 358-382
3: Getting in, 31-45
11: Unobtrusive measures, 303-330
Students will write a research paper following scholarly 
        guidelines, and will present an analysis of a journal article in class.
Assignments and Grading
Borgman, C.L., & Furner, J. (2002).  Scholarly communication and 
        bibliometrics.  Annual Review of Information Science and Technology.  
        B. Cronin and D. Shaw (eds.).
One journal article to be assigned.
Week 7 (Feb 20):Unobtrusive measurement; evaluation research
APA Manual
Week 4 (Jan 30): Indexes, scales, sampling
Note: Prof. Borgman is scheduled to be in Oakland this date for a meeting 
        of the UC Standing Committee on Copyright.  We will reschedule this class 
        meeting for another day, either Wed, Feb 26 or Friday, Feb 28.
For data analysis:
Sample article on experimental research (presented by Anthony Dunbar):
1: Content and organization of a manuscript, 1-22
http://www.ats.ucla.edu/at/grant_development/
        Although this service is intended for faculty (PIs) working on interdisciplinary 
        grant proposals, doctoral students should be aware of its availability.
1: Human inquiry and science, 16-40 (review ethics aspects)
2: Paradigms, theory, and social research, 41-67
Week 3 (Jan 23): Research design, conceptualization, measurement
9: Developing analysis, 181-203
Lofland & Lofland
We will spend at least the first half of the class on human subjects 
        and ethics issues.  the latter part of the class session will be devoted 
        to discussing your term paper topics.
6: Thinking topics, 101-122
Walk-in Consulting
        There is currently no walk-in consulting. A limited amount of free consulting 
        is available through the Center, contact Richard Berk. For on-campus walk-in, 
        e-mail, and telephone consulting we refer you to ATS Consulting Services 
        (http://www.ats.ucla.edu/stat/).
4: Getting along, 46-65

Week 5 (Feb 6): Experimental and survey research
Readings:
14: Quantifying data, 383-395
Week 2 (Jan 16): Ethics in research; human subjects protection
NOTE; PAPERS DUE ON LAST CLASS DAY.
Tuchman, B.W. (1981). Practicing history. New York: Alfred A. Knopf "The 
        historian as artist," pp. 45-50 "The historian's opportunity," 
        pp. 51-64
Week 6 (Feb 13): Qualitative field research
Part 3, Analyzing data, 179-180
Another interesting work on writing qualitative research is by:
Miles, M.B., & Huberman, M. (1994). Qualitative Data Analysis: An 
        Expanded Sourcebook. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. (A very good reference and 
        lots of suggestions about how to translate your massive amount of data 
        into helpful charts and tables and reduce it to manageable chunks).
Updated: 
        March 5, 2003
15: Elementary quantitative analyses, 396-415
Gottschalk, L. (1969). Understanding history: a primer of historical 
        method. New York: Alfred A. Knopf. Chapter 2: "The relation of historical 
        method to life and learning", pp. 26-37 Chapter 3, "What are 
        'history' and 'historical sources'?", pp. 41-61
1: Starting where you are, 11-15
The Belmont Report, Office of the Secretary, Ethical Principles and Guidelines 
        for the Protection of Human Subjects of Research, The National Commission 
        for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research, 
        April 18, 1979.
http://ohrp.osophs.dhhs.gov/humansubjects/guidance/belmont.htm
Babbie

The impact of the Internet on public library use: An analysis of the 
        current consumer market for library and Internet services
http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/cgi-bin/fulltext/94516010/FILE?TPL=ftx_start
All readings are to be completed in advance of the class meeting.  
        Students are graded on class participation and mastery of readings (see 
        assignments and grading).
UCLA Investigator’s Manual for the Protection of Human Subjects (Read 
        intro, skim through rest) http://www.oprs.ucla.edu/human/TOC.htm
One or two students will present their analysis of the assigned journal 
        articles today.
Other options include: access to a number of datasets (http://www.stat.ucla.edu/data) 
        and case studies (http://www.stat.ucla.edu/data), 
        and a series of (mainly unsupported) statistics calculators (http://calculators.stat.ucla.edu/).
9: Survey research, 237-273
Week 10 (March 13): Quantitative data analysis; papers due
Altheide, D.L.; Johnson, J.M. (1994). Criteria for assessing interpretive 
        validity in qualitative research. In Norman K.; Denzin, Y.; & Lincoln, 
        S. (Eds.), Handbook of qualitative research (485- 499).Thousand Oaks, 
        CA: Sage. (Says it all. I found it useful)
The course is conducted as a workshop, drawing upon students’ research 
        projects to study research methods.  We will survey quantitative, qualitative, 
        and historical research designs in this course, also touching upon related 
        issues such as ethics and human subjects protection. The first week of 
        the course will provide a brief review of epistemological issues and basic 
        concepts of research design.  The course is intended to prepare students 
        for further study on specific methods that they will pursue in their own 
        research and for further study of statistics, and to assist in preparation 
        for PhD qualifying exams.
18: The ethics and politics of social research, 468-489
FURTHER READING;

Free Electronic Consulting
        We do provide free electronic consulting on our WWW server. You post messages 
        to the consulting forum (http://www.stat.ucla.edu/w-agora/index.php3?bn=stat_consulting). 
        We shall try to get you an answer in the same forum asap, but you get 
        what you pay for!
General information about the various activities of the statistics department 
        can be found on their main page: http://www.stat.ucla.edu/
REQUIRED:
Part 4, Analysis of data
10: Qualitative field research, 274-302
Prior to class: take “Protecting Human Subjects” exam on website (allow 
        at least 2 hours): http://training.arc.ucla.edu/
Part 2, Focusing data, 99-100
The following list was provided by Nadia Caidi, who found these materials 
        on qualitative methods particularly helpful in her dissertation research 
        and writing.
Pagendarm, M., Schaumburg, H. (2001). Why Are Users Banner-Blind? The 
        Impact of Navigation Style on the Perception of Web Banners. Journal of 
        Digital Information, 2(1). 
        Article URL: <http://jodi.ecs.soton.ac.uk/Articles/v02/i01/Pagendarm/>
        Journal URL: <http://jodi.ecs.soton.ac.uk/>
6: Indexes, scales, typologies, 148-174
One or two journal articles to be assigned.
Silverman, D. (1997). Interpreting Qualitative Data. Beverly Hills, CA: 
        Sage.
Course Materials
Note: class meeting to be rescheduled
Other resources (outside UCLA, including newsgroups and tech support 
        sites) can be found here: http://www.ats.ucla.edu/stat/otherresources.htm
General:
FYI:
        The Statistical Consulting Group at ATS (Academic Technology Services, 
        home of the Visualization Portal and other projects) offers various training 
        and statistical consulting services to UCLA faculty, staff, and students, 
        free of charge. Check out their Winter schedule (including locations, 
        hours, consulting options, classes & seminars, mailing list, etc.) 
        here: http://www.ats.ucla.edu/stat/Schedule/default.htm
        They are located at DCP/Stat Lab, 4919 Math Sciences Building.
Useful sources for the writing part:
Dey, I. (1993). Qualitative data analysis : a user-friendly guide for 
        social scientists. New York, NY: Routledge.
5: Logging data, 66-98
Week 6 (Feb 13): Qualitative field research
Norman Denzin & Yvonna Lincoln (1994). Handbook of Qualitative Research. 
        Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. Covers the essential, and the chapters are well 
        structured, with good examples.
10: Writing reports, 204-230
Borgman, C.L., Hirsh, S.G., & Hiller, J.   (1996). Rethinking Online 
        Monitoring Methods For Information Retrieval Systems: From Search Product 
        To Search Process. Journal of the American Society for Information 
        Science, 47(7), 568-583.
Other useful works for different stages of the research include:
This is the second course in research methods and design for PhD students 
        in information studies, and is being taught for the third time.  Previously, 
        Information Studies PhD students took 291, Introduction to Research Design 
        and Methodology, as a single course.  We divided 291 into part A, now 
        titled, Theoretical Traditions In Information Studies, and part B, which 
        builds upon that background to address “practical” research design.  Pre-requisite 
        to 291B/285 are 291A and/or 291, and at least one course in descriptive 
        and inferential statistics.  Master’s students who have taken the pre-requisites 
        are eligible to enroll.  Graduate students without all of the pre-requisites 
        but with extensive background in epistemology or research methods may 
        enroll with instructor’s permission.  Graduate students from related fields 
        (education, communication, psychology, etc.) are welcome to enroll if 
        they meet these requirements.
Babbie: Preface, xvi

Shea, C. (2000).  Don't Talk to the Humans:  The Crackdown on Social 
        Science Research.  Lingua Franca, 10(6).  On reserve in MIT 
        Lab.
Week 7 (Feb 20): Unobtrusive measurement; evaluation research
RECOMMENDED:
Part 4, Analysis of data, 357
Sample article on experimental research (presented by Renia Ehrenfeucht):
One student will present his or her analysis of the assigned journal 
        article today.
8: Arousing interest, 149-178
* Intelligence Gathering
        * Pre-Proposal Planning and Coordination
        * Technology Requirements Identification
        * Proposal Creation
        * Administrative Grant Fulfillment
        * Technical Grant Fulfillment
Part 2, The structure of inquiry
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES courtesy of Laura Pasquale):
One of the objectives of this course is assist students in building a 
        core personal library on research methods and design.  The three required 
        texts are classics that will assist you in your research career (and in 
        writing your seminar paper). A few additional course materials are available 
        online or will be distributed or put on reserve.  Other materials are 
        recommended, as student interests will vary.
Weiss, R.S. (1994). Learning from Strangers. New York, NY: Free Press. 
        (Easy to read. A must for everyone getting ready to go to the field. Mostly 
        interviewing techniques).
5: Conceptualization, operationalization, and measurement, 118-147
7: Asking questions, 123-148
Week 9 (March 6):Qualitative data analysis – part 12
3: The idea of causation in social research, 68-87
Week 1 (Jan 9): Course introduction and overview
Part 5, The social context of research
Borgman, Christine L. THE INVISIBLE LIBRARY: PARADOX OF THE GLOBAL INFORMATION 
        INFRASTRUCTURE. Library Trends, Special Issue on Research Questions for 
        the Field. To appear Spring, 2003, 51(4). -- PDF 
        file (72K) - Adobe 
        Acrobat or Acrobat Reader required.
1: Human inquiry and science, 16-40
Particularly relevant to our research design class:
        "Choosing the correct analysis for various survey designs" http://www.ats.ucla.edu/stat/survey/survey_howtochoose.htm
Holographic overview, 1-13


Babbie:
Week 10 (March 13): Quantitative data analysis
12: Evaluation research, 331-355
Students will begin to build their personal libraries on research methods 
        via the course readings.  Materials include two widely-used textbooks 
        on social science research methods and a widely-used publication manual 
        for social science research.
Part 1, An introduction to inquiry
The course texts will provide a high level overview of methods, but you 
        will need more materials specific to the methods selected for your paper.  
        One of the best sources are the Sage University papers (http://www.sagepub.com), 
        which are inexpensive paperbacks on specific topics such as focus groups, 
        factor analysis, sampling, significance testing.  They have a qualitative 
        series and a quantitative series.  Sage is also an excellent source for 
        more extensive books on various social science research methods.  A list 
        of suggested sources is included at the end of this syllabus.
Week 8 (Feb 27): Qualitative data analysis – part 1
Part 1, Gathering data
Week 9 (March 6): Qualitative data analysis – part 2
Also, ATS offers "Grant Development Support" including:
Sample article on experimental research (presented by Laura Pasquale):
Tesch, R.(1990). Qualitative research : Analysis types and software tools. 
        New York: Falmer Press.
8: Experiments, 216-236