
The ORION2 Oversight Committee, created as a joint Senate-Administration committee in March 2000, continues to work closely with the UCLA Library on the acquisition and deployment of a replacement system.  As of July 1, 2002, the committee is working with Interim University Librarian Alison Bunting and Executive Vice Chancellor Dan Neuman.  This is a status report on important aspects of the process as the 2002-03 academic year gets underway.
Quick Links: UCLA Library Catalog | Melvyl Catalog (Web) | Melvyl Catalog (Telnet) | Article Databases | Online Materials | Renewals | Document Delivery | Interlibrary Loans | Reserves | Need Help? Ask a Librarian | Classes & Instruction
This past summer, the ORION2 Oversight Committee, the functional sponsors, and the Library administration agreed to proceed with a formal Request for Proposal (RFP) to select a new system to assure the best selection possible, given the long-term investment in the system.  The RFP has been issued with a response deadline of early December.  The Library and the functional sponsors are working jointly to structure a broadly consultative evaluation process.  The goal is to select and contract for the new system by the beginning of April 2003.  Full cutover to a new system is expected in Summer 2004.
Last updated: October 24, 2002
As you are aware from several campus communications this past year, UCLA is selecting a new library information system due to the corporate acquisition of our current vendor.  The new vendor has announced that it will no longer develop the software that underlies our existing ORION2 system and is likely to cease maintaining the software sometime toward the end of calendar year 2004.

UCLA is currently searching for a new university librarian, following Gloria Werner's retirement on July 1, 2002.  Christine Borgman, chair of the search committee, also serves as a functional sponsor, and the search committee and functional sponsors are working together to align the timing of the two processes.
Version with graphics
First, to secure collection and assimilation of critical input from the campus community, the ORION2 Oversight Committee and the Library jointly appointed a "Functional Sponsor" group of faculty, staff, and graduate students.  Together, the functional sponsors and library staff have identified key capabilities for a new system.
October 21, 2002
Dear Colleagues:
Finally, the ORION2 Oversight Committee and the Library are working together to ensure that the current ORION2 system will continue to be available until the new system is fully operational.  While the current vendor has not delivered all of the promised functionality, the existing version will need to continue providing those basic services that are currently operational.
Other Links: UCLA Home | My.UCLA | Campus Directory | Search this Site
The ORION2 Oversight Committee
Abdelmonem Afifi, Dean Emeritus and Professor, Public Health
Christine Borgman, Professor, Information Studies
Alfonso Cardenas, Professor, Computer Science
Jim Davis, Associate Vice Chancellor, Information Technology; Professor, Chemical Engineering
Jonathan Post, Professor, English
Myra Saunders, Associate Dean, Law Library, Professor in Residence
Stephen Yeazell, Professor, Law
Send a question or comment about this site
© Regents of the University of California
You are here:
Home > News, Exhibits, and Events > News, Exhibits, and Events > Update on Search for ORION2 Replacement > Message from the ORION2 Oversight Committee with a Status Report
The Library and the ORION2 Committee will continue to keep you fully informed.  We encourage you to bookmark the site http://www.library.ucla.edu/new-orion/index.html, which has been established to provide the campus community with an ongoing record of community input, progress, and decisions.
We wish to thank all of you who have provided input to date.  We will solicit further input during the evaluation of proposals.
About the Libraries: Campus Libraries | Hours & Locations | Services & Policies | Contact Information | Disability Resources | Information Literacy Initiative