
Invited paper: Disciplinary Differences in e-Research: An Information Perspective - Christine Borgman
Invited paper: Social science research and the Internet: intriguing tangent, or core business? - Christine Hine
Christine Hine is Senior Lecturer in the Department of Sociology at
the University of Surrey. Her main research centres on the sociology of
science and technology, including ethnographic studies of scientific
culture, information technology and the Internet. Her published work on
research methods and the Internet includes Virtual Ethnography (Sage,
2000) and the edited collection Virtual Methods (Berg, 2005). She is
currently exploring the sociology of cyberscience, as recipient of an
ESRC research fellowship. A book on the deployment of information and
communications technologies in biological systematics, and an edited
collection on the social shaping of new infrastructures for knowledge
production are in preparation in connection with that project.
Christine has recently been elected President of the European
Association for the Study of Science and Technology
(http://www.easst.net).
University of California
I have tried to argue that the Internet provides an opportunity for
new approaches to social research and for a social research that
respects the role of mediated communications in everyday life. It also,
I suggest, provides an occasion for methodological reflection. Some
initial questions for discussion are:
Coming back to the question of Internet as culture/Internet as
cultural artefact, one problem with using the Internet in social
research is that research questions can often not be addressed solely
with online observations. Answering questions about what Internet use
means in the context of everyday life often means we need to move the
research offline. Analysing web sites is a fascinating route into
exploring the cultural constructions of an issue, but often we will
want to find out more about the sites of production of those web sites.
Sometimes an online interview, conducted via email, will suffice to
give a picture of the facet of life that we are interested in, but
often face-to-face interviews will serve to triangulate the picture
that the online interviews give. The curiosity of social researchers
should almost automatically take them across the online/offline
boundary, since the things we want to know do not confine themselves
easily to particular communication media. In the process we can learn
something about research methods too, not only reflecting on whether
the online experience was adequate to count as an interview, but also
examining our assumptions about face to face encounters.
Christine L. Borgman is Professor and Presidential Chair in
Information Studies at the University of California, Los Angeles
(UCLA). She is a co-principal investigator for the Center for Embedded
Networked Sensing (CENS) and for the Alexandria Digital Earth Prototype
(ADEPT) project, both funded by the National Science Foundation. She is
the author of more than 150 publications in the fields of information
studies, computer science, and communication. She won the Best
Information Science Book of the Year Award (American Society for
Information Science & Technology) for From Gutenberg to the Global
Information Infrastructure: Access to Information in a Networked World
(MIT Press, 2000). She is writing a book on Scholarship in the Digital
Age while on sabbatical at the Oxford Internet Institute. Prof. Borgman
is a member of the U.S. National Committee on Data for Science and
Technology (CODATA), and the Advisory Board to the Electronic Privacy
Information Center. She is Retiring Chair of the Information,
Computing, and Communication Section of the American Association for
the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and is a Fellow of the AAAS.
In
this piece I describe the route that brought me to use the Internet in
my research, in order to raise some questions about the relationship
between Internet research and the social science endeavour.
Specifically, I want to ask whether the Internet might mean more to
social science than just a niche area inhabited by trendy and/or lazy
researchers. Is the Internet, instead, something that social
researchers across the board need to take seriously? How might use of
the Internet become a part of the standard research tool kit?
Christine Hine
Department of Sociology
University of Surrey
Guildford, Surrey, GU2 7XH, UK
http://www.soc.surrey.ac.uk/christine_hine.htm
At the stage that I started doing Internet research the field was in
an infancy characterised by immense enthusiasm for the radical
potential of the technology to reshape the very fabric of social life.
There was considerable excitement about the possibilities for new forms
of social interaction and fluid notions of identity that the Internet
seemed to offer. Latterly, the emphasis on the Internet as something
radically new has faded somewhat, and the focus has turned to the
embedding of Internet in everyday life. Just as with other media, we
can look at the ways in which the Internet is domesticated, becoming a
meaningful aspect of lives lived in complex domains comprised of
diverse forms of communication. The Internet has become an important
space to study social formations and identity, but we don’t expect the
medium to lead automatically to particular outcomes. This
transformation in thinking about the Internet doesn’t, however, seem to
have had as much impact as I would expect upon the mainstream of social
research.
__________________________________________________________________
My first excursions onto the Internet with scientists were followed
by many more, as I found that I could do new forms of research (and I
chose still to call them ethnography), no longer tied to the laboratory
where I started. I could explore the way that researchers were finding
new ways of communicating and doing science across wide geographical
distances. That initial interest in the Internet as a space for rich
and diverse social interactions has stayed with me across several
shifts of subject matter, and I have increasingly relied on multi-sited
approaches to ethnography that allow me to combine online and offline
and explore the connections between them.
Christine Borgman
Professor and Presidential Chair in Information Studies
My own introduction to the Internet as a research field happened in
classic ethnographic style, when the people that I was studying went
online and I followed them. I was studying genetics researchers in the
mid-1990s, and increasingly I found that the people I met in the
laboratory were communicating by email, sharing data online, and
getting information and advice from discussion forums. Wanting to know
more about what was happening on the Internet, and wanting to know what
it meant for the people involved, I followed them online. I found
discussion groups forming on the Internet around diverse aspects of
scientific practice. Like my original field site in the laboratory,
these online settings also seemed to have a distinctive culture that
seemed ripe for participant observation. At the same time, I was aware
that the scientists I met in the laboratory had quite different
expectations about the Internet: some were net connoisseurs who
routinely turned to online groups for their work, while other were
suspicious about its abilities to provide reliable advice, or simply
lacked the background to make sense of its possibilities. Later on I
came to think of this as the Internet as culture/Internet as cultural
artefact duality: whilst the Internet had become a space for cultural
formations to emerge, the experience and use of that space was very
much shaped by people’s cultural expectations about the Internet.
e-Research
is a collective term for the various initiatives on e-Science, e-Social
Science, e-Humanities, and cyberinfrastructure. e-Research refers to
distributed, collaborative, information-intensive forms of inquiry. The
overall aim is “to do faster, better, and different interdisciplinary
research (and scholarship) across the university,” as summed up by Tony
Hey, head of the U.K. e-Science programs. e-Social Science research
currently is organized into two themes: (1) research and development of
technology, tools, and data sources to support collaborative social
science research, and (2) social study of e-Research. e-Research in all
disciplines will depend upon the generation, analysis, visualization,
management, and curation of data and documents, and upon access to
those resources. Interdisciplinary research will depend upon sharing
data within and between communities. Decades of research in information
studies and in socio-technical systems has shown that disciplines vary
greatly in their use of data and documents, in their local or
distributed access to information resources, and in their degree of
collaboration. Understanding more about the use of information is
essential to the construction of an information infrastructure to
facilitate research.
Just as research into the mass media is so often marginalised as a
separate specialism of the discipline, so too does Internet research
risk being framed as an intriguing tangent that has little to say to
the rest of the discipline. I think this sells short the potential of
the Internet as a research medium and as a component of the social
fabric. I would hypothesise that whatever substantive interest you
might have as a social researcher, you will be able to find a place on
the Internet where it is being discussed. Whatever your field of
research, I would guess that some of the people you may be interviewing
face-to-face, observing or conducting surveys with will be taking part
in some form of online interaction. The Internet, then, provides at the
very least an opportunity for social research. Pushing the point a
little further, though, we might ask whether our accounts of social
life can continue to be credible if they exclude the Internet. It seems
to me that the mainstream needs to take on board the significance of
the Internet and other kinds of mediated communication as important
facets of everyday life. Social research needs to take account of the
fact that people conduct their social existence through a wide range of
communication media, and that we can’t any longer assume that
face-to-face research gives us a truer picture than mediated research
methods and field sites.