
Amendment analysis
Longtime ethics board attorney Maris LeBlanc will move over to advise Commissioner of Administration Jerry Luke LeBlanc on what he legally may do while overseeing the state's budget. LeBlanc, who is not related to her future boss, had spent her entire 19-year legal career at the state Board of Ethics, advising board members on ethics and campaign-finance laws. Jerry Luke Leblanc said he has "always been impressed with Ms. LeBlanc's abilities to analyze legal issues and her impeccable reputation." Maris LeBlanc will start her new job Sept. 13.
SCHEDULE
Minors allowed
"People were either for him or against him, and you did not have anyone in between."
To contact lawmakers:
Secretary of State Fox McKeithen said last week he expects "real light" absentee voting for the Sept. 18 elections because there are only a few hot local or regional races on the ballot. McKeithen said absentee voting begins Tuesday and runs through Saturday at local registrars of voters offices. The hours for voting are 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. daily. Because of hot School Board races in Orleans Parish and a mayoral election in Baton Rouge, the absentee voting in those areas may be "heavier than other places," McKeithen said. The only statewide issue on the ballot is a proposal to amend the state Constitution to include a ban on same-sex marriages. Several judgeship races and a Public Service Commission race that covers the area from New Orleans to Baton Rouge also are on the ballot.
-- Senate: (225) 342-2040; fax: (225) 342-0617
"A lot of things will be forgotten about Huey Long, but 'Share the Wealth' -- that's something they'll never forget."
AROUND THE CAPITOL
QUOTABLE
Blanco hoping to win over Benson
STAYING IN TOUCH
Candidates from three minor parties have qualified candidates to be placed on the state's presidential ballot Nov. 2, and there is still time for more to get on, Scott Madere, spokesman for Secretary of State Fox McKeithen, said last week. In addition to President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney running on the Republican ticket, and U.S. Sens. John Kerry and John Edwards representing Democrats, the other parties that have signed up are the Socialist Workers Party, the Libertarian Party and the Louisiana Green Party, Madere said. The deadline for minor parties to sign up for the election in Louisiana is Tuesday at 5 p.m. James Harris of Georgia and Margaret Trowe of Massachusetts make up the Socialist Workers Party ticket, Michael Badnarik of Texas and Richard Campagna of Iowa make up the Libertarian Party team, and David Cobb of California and Patricia LaMarche of Maine are the candidates of the Louisiana Green Party. Madere said that as of Friday, independent presidential candidate Ralph Nader has not filed to be on the Louisiana ballot.
INFORMATION PLEASE
While trying to reach a deal on a new or renovated stadium for the New Orleans Saints, Gov. Kathleen Blanco also is trying to warm an uneasy relationship with team owner Tom Benson, who supported her opponent in the governor's race last fall. After talks Wednesday at the Governor's Mansion, Blanco and Benson emerged with grim faces and no progress to report. "I was not as thrilled with the discussion as I had hoped to be," Blanco said Thursday. The state is studying whether to renovate the Superdome or build a new stadium, which could cost more than $450 million. Blanco said she wanted the National Football League to put $100 million toward a new stadium and Benson to contribute $60 million to $80 million. Benson, who built a car dealership empire, said the NFL would loan about $34 million to the team for the project and that the football franchise could contribute about $60 million. Whatever the future course of talks, Blanco said she was not bargaining with the expectation that Benson is on the verge of pulling the team out of New Orleans. "I don't think Tom Benson wants to leave," Blanco said. "If he had wanted to leave, he would have left a long time ago." Meanwhile, she plans to attend some Saints home games this season, something her predecessor, Mike Foster rarely made time to do.
Ballot watch
The Legislature is scheduled to convene April 25 for a regular fiscal session.
Talking football
Justice league
Spoken by a life-size mechanized HUEY LONG figure premiering last week at the Old State Capitol in Baton Rouge
TRACKING BILLS
Absentee voting begins Tuesday for Sept. 18 election
TOP OF THE NEWS

PAR issues analysis of gay-marriage ban
Citizens can find the Louisiana legislative home page on the Internet at www.legis.state.la.us. Information on legislators, committee assignments, schedules and bills is available, as well as information on services for people with disabilities.
KAY LONG on her grandfather, former Gov. Huey Long
Gov. Kathleen Blanco last week became the first governor to speak to the Governor's Conference on Juvenile Justice, addressing the group at its 25th annual meeting. Speaking to the assembly of people who work in the juvenile justice system, the governor reiterated her commitment to change. The latest news from the governor's office is that officials from Missouri, which has a much-heralded juvenile system with smaller facilities that have a better success rate of rehabilitating young offenders, will advise Louisiana on how to improve its three youth prisons. The Missouri experts will tour the state's prisons this week, Blanco said, adding that she wants state officials to gradually improve the Louisiana system. "We don't want it rushed. We want it right," she said.
The Public Affairs Research Council has issued its analysis of the proposed state constitutional amendment that would ban same-sex marriage and bar recognition of other such unions, the only statewide measure on the Sept. 18 ballot. PAR President Jim Brandt said the proposal would define marriage in the state Constitution as a union of one man and one woman and prohibit state officials from recognizing same-sex unions performed in other states. It also would bar Louisiana from recognizing "any legal status that is identical or substantially similar to that of marriage for any unmarried individuals," including opposite-sex couples. Brandt said legal experts are divided on the proposal's potential impact on the validity of some contracts between couples, same-sex or opposite-sex. PAR does not take a stand on the issue but presents the arguments on both sides, Brandt said. Copies of the analysis, researched by PAR staff attorney and research analyst Charlotte Bergeron, are available for $3 each by writing the Public Affairs Research Council, P.O. Box 14776, Baton Rouge, LA, 70898-4776; by calling 1(225) 926-8414; or by sending an e-mail to staff@la-par.org. Brandt said bulk orders will get a discounted rate. The analysis, he said, also is available at the organization's Web site, www.la-par.org.
-- House: (225) 342-6945; fax: (225) 342-8336
LeBlanc & LeBlanc