
The 4-acre Pirate's Cove marina has been put for sale. An ad for the property on the Merrimack River lists a price of $800,000, which Nadeau said he would accept immediately. He said a poor economy keeps restaurant patrons at home and high gas prices keep boaters from using their boats.

"I think it would be best for someone to go in, take the marina building, fix it up a little bit and decide what they want to do," he said. "Then, if it's possible build themselves a house on the water. And they have a nice mom and pop business they can run and have no worries."
Brennan said he hopes prospective buyers can see the charm and potential of the land.
The marina has docking stations for 40 boats that can be no longer than 24 feet.
By Alex Quinones



Staff writer
Gregory Brennan, the Foley Real Estate agent who is handling the property, said even though the restaurant can be torn down or redone, a wise buyer would keep the marina.
"The property is for sale, but for the right price," he said.
"I used to get 30 boats docking on an average day," he said. "That is down this year to 10."
The marina at 565 Lowell St., Route 110, was once a base for sea planes. It  now docks boats until October.
Increasing insurance costs forced him to sell the land, sell most of the planes and keep one plane for pilot training classes.
John J. Wholley, a retired U.S. Air pilot, sold Nadeau the property in April 1998 for $171,000, according to the deed. Wholley now leases a small corner patch of the shore, where he once had a fleet of sea planes for tours.
"It's a gem, a diamond in the rough," he said. "It's there if you want to run a small marina operation and know what you have."
METHUEN -- The struggling economy has the owner of Methuen's only marina looking to sell -- but Paul Nadeau says he will hold out for the right price.
Preferring not to deal with the public, Nadeau said it would be ideal if people contacted his broker.
"I wanted to do this quietly," he said.
"I don't have time to give people tours," he said.
While most sellers desire to have lots of  people inquiring about their property, Nadeau said he regrets having his broker put up an ad of his property on the Web site Marinasforsale.com this past week. He has had four people come to ask him about the property.
Across the shore is a island that was created when a 1936 flood severed the beach from the mainland, leaving behind a secluded shore hugged by trees. From the road, only the Pirate's Cove restaurant is visible, something the current owner established.
Nadeau is a retired electrician in his 60s. His restaurant, which once served lunch and breakfast at the marina, now serves only breakfast. He said there aren't enough customers to have the place open past noon. And the marina doesn't see the level of activity it once saw.