
Nothing in the life of Abby Watkins has been typical. Since she began 
        climbing in 1988, Abby has proven her ability to excel at just about every 
        kind of climbing imaginable. In 1996 she and fellow Australian Vera Wong 
        set the Women's Speed Records on the Nose of El Cap (16 hrs. 30 min.) 
        and the Regular Northwest Face on Half Dome (9 hrs. 45 minutes). She also 
        has a mile-long list of competitive titles she's taken home over the years: 
        third place at the 2002 Ice Climbing World Championships, first place 
        at Festiglace du Quebec in 2001, first place at the Ouray Ice Festival 
        in the combined category, the U.S. Speed Climbing Championship in 1996.
Matt Maddaloni is an accomplished all round climber at the age of 25 
        with V11 boulder problems, 5.13 crack and sport routes, and A5 nail ups 
        to his credit. He has been climbing for 10 years and makes his home in 
        Canada's granite destination, Squamish, BC.
Yet among all her achievements, Abby remains fully grounded, "The 
        most important thing for me has not been the end results, the wins, the 
        records. I am far more interested in the relationships I have created 
        through climbing, and also the humility with which climbing has helped 
        me approach the world."
Where: Centennial Theatre, 2300 Lonsdale Avenue, North 
        Vancouver (exit 18 off Trans Canada Highway)
        When: Friday February 27, 7:00 (doors open and reception starts at 6:00 
        PM). 
        Tickets: $ 15 in advance, $ 17 at the door. Advance tickets available 
        at MEC, selected outdoor stores and climbing gyms, and at the Centennial 
        Theatre Box Office, (604) 984-4484.
In 1998 Abby took her skills to the mountains of Pakistan and promptly 
        completed two first ascents in the Nangmah Valley. Her ability to set 
        numerous speed-climbing records, on-sight 5.12, lead grade 6 ice and M8+ 
        mixed routes has proven that she's virtually unstoppable when it comes 
        to climbing. Perhaps her background as a dancer and gymnast has helped 
        to fuel her fire, or it could be her raw talent and flair for adventure 
        that allows her to continually build upon her talents and add to her repertoire 
        of successes. But any way you look at it, you'll find Abby sharing her 
        talent and experiences through her presentations and clinics, and her 
        job as a mountain guide.

Also on the same evening Matt Maddaloni's multimedia presentation 
        Squamish Long Free Routes covering his recent breakthrough ascents in 
        the area of Squamish; In the Shadow of the Chief film screening, a reconstruction 
        of the first ascent of the Squamish Chief; and more films. The evening 
        is presented by Mount Seymour.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
In 2001 Maddaloni soloed a 2000 foot tower in Pakistan. "I had never 
        been to a third world country, the Himalayas, or soloed a big wall first 
        ascent. Pakistan seemed the perfect place to satisfy these curiosities. 
        Alone and exposed on a granite wall out in the Karakoram mountains left 
        me looking deep into my psyche. What I found was alarming and intense, 
        and I wanted more.
In the summer of 2002 Maddaloni had finished two new long routes. The 
        "Black Dyke" with 12 pitches and it's crux at 5.13b had become 
        Squamish's first all bolt protected multi pitch to the summit of the Chief. 
        His "Warriors of the Wasteland" with 8 pitches was climbed completely 
        ground up and included a 45 meter 5.12a finger crack and a 5.12c sport 
        pitch all bolted while on lead. In commenting on these two very different 
        styles of climbs Maddaloni says "I'm interested in all adventures 
        and first ascents are guaranteed adventures because what lies ahead is 
        all but a mystery. To me this sounds like the most fun!"

Where: Centennial Theatre, 2300 Lonsdale Avenue, 
        North Vancouver (exit 18 off Trans Canada Highway)
        When: Friday February 27, 7:00 (doors open and reception starts at 6:00 
        PM). 
        Tickets: $ 15 in advance, $ 17 at the door. Advance tickets available 
        at MEC, selected outdoor stores and climbing gyms, and at the Centennial 
        Theatre Box Office, (604) 984-4484.
TOP
Join Abby Watkins in her VIMFF presentation Climbing - A Woman's Perspective 
        for a journey of climbing from the sun-drenched cliffs of her homeland, 
        Australia to towering big walls of Yosemite, from the Karakoram to Kirov, 
        Russia and beyond. Never one to want to miss out on anything, her climbing 
        career has taken her through rock climbing, ice climbing, big wall speed 
        climbing records, alpine climbing, first ascents in the Karakoram and 
        competing in the ice climbing World Cup. With the unique perspective of 
        a woman engaging in a life of high adventure, Abby will speak of her life 
        on the sharp end of the rope. Abby's presentation is sponsored by the 
        North Face.
When asked about his new route on Baffin Island Maddaloni says, "Our 
        route in Baffin was BIG! I'm talking about 8 to 10 hour leads of hard 
        and scary aid, while living on the wall for 25 days in a row. That's enough 
        time for the 9-5 world to completely cease to exist. You eat, breathe 
        and sleep climbing, something I've never seemed to attain even from a 
        week long El Capitan route."
Matt's VIMFF multimedia presentation Squamish Long Free Routes will cover 
        his recent breakthrough ascents in the area of Squamish. Also on the same 
        evening: Abby Watkins, Canada's top female climber; In the Shadow of the 
        Chief film screening, a reconstruction of the first ascent of the Squamish 
        Chief; and more films. The evening is presented by Mount Seymour.