
In the first competition, the Pure Skill and Artistry segment, the participants each choose a route up the falls purely on ice, with no rock climbing involved. Each competitor was judged on the difficulty of his or her chosen route and the efficiency, security, and artistry with which he or she climbed.
Canada's Rich Marshall finished in first place with a combined 219 points in the men's division. He credited his success to his creativity and selected route:
Canadian Will Gadd took second place and finished 27 points behind Marshall. American Jared Ogden took third place - but it wasn't easy. Ogden struggled on the last chunk of ice near the top of the climb, but managed to collect 123 points in the combined events.
Rich Marshall scored a combined 196 points, 27 more than his closest competitor, to win the annual Ouray Ice Festival over the weekend in Ouray, Colorado. In the women's competition, Canadian Kim Csizmazia edged Australian Abby Watkins to win the title in the six-person field.
The women's competition, which last year had only two climbers, featured six competitors this year. Canadian Kim Csizmazia claimed the first place prize with an extremely strong showing in the pure ice portion of the climb.
In the second competition, the Gymnastics, Power and Vision Sport Mixed route, the athletes climbed on the designated mixed ice and rock route crafted by event organiser and climber Jeff Lowe. Points were awarded for each event and overall winners were declared.
Eighteen world-class climbers from around the globe converged on Uncompahgre Gorge in Colorado, USA, this weekend for the sixth annual Ouray Ice Festival. The festival is comprised of a climbing competition broken into two segments, including the Pure Ice and the Mixed Rock & Ice climbs.
"I was just looking for something a little different. I was number nine, so there wasn't a lot left that hadn't been done and to me it was just trying to find something that stimulated me as well.”
Australian Abby Watkins finished second for the second consecutive year. Watkins used skilful body positioning to all but dominate the mixed competition. She finished 23 points behind Csizmazia for the overall title.