
A park conditions bulletin said there was a considerable avalanche hazard	in the area Saturday. That rating is about the middle of the hazard scale but includes the high probability that a person could trigger a slide, said Dunn. "The risk always varies . . . when the risk is posted as considerable it's a note to skiers to be cautious," she said.
The staff of Alpine Helicopters Ltd. - Golden 
        The staff of Brandon?Bowers Funeral Home - Revelstoke 
        The staff of Canadian Avalanche Association - Revelstoke 
        The staff of Canadian Mountain Holidays Inc. - Revelstoke and Gothics 
        The staff of Executive Flight Services - Revelstoke 
        The staff of Kicking Horse Mountain Resort - Golden 
        The staff of Kokanee Helicopters - Revelstoke 
        The staff of Selkirk Mountain Experience - Revelstoke 
        The staff of Selkirk Tangiers Helicopter Skiing - Revelstoke 
        The staff of Shell Oil - Revelstoke 
        The staff of Yamnuska Inc. - Canmore 
        Royal Canadian Mounted Police (Revelstoke, Cranbrook, Nelson, Kamloops and Vancouver) 
        RCMP Revelstoke Victim Assistance Counselors 
        British Columbia Ambulance Service (Golden and Revelstoke) 
        British Columbia Coroner Chuck Purse 
        2nd Regiment, Royal Canadian Horse Artillery, Petawawa, ON.
The size of the rescue operation was also huge: more than 30 people, seven helicopters, six avalanche dogs and their handlers and dozens of support staff were involved. This was a multi-agency rescue, involving Parks Canada staff from three national parks, several local companies (Selkirk Tangiers Helicopter Skiing, Canadian Mountain Holidays, Selkirk Mountain Experience, Alpine Helicopters, Kokanee Helicopters, Shell Canada Revelstoke, Executive Flight Services), mountain guides, RCMP, tourists, medical staff and the Canadian Army stationed at Rogers Pass. Important services provided during the rescue included grief counseling, support to the families, media relations, transportation and logistical support.
Dafoe speculated a small slide may have occurred high up the mountain and as it came down, it dragged out snow from surrounding gullies.
All 17 skiers in the school group were caught in this avalanche, either partially or fully buried, and 10 survived. Two Association of Canadian Mountain Guides (ACMG) members were above this party, heard and saw the avalanche across the valley and tried to warn the group, but the avalanche hit them so fast they were unable to get to safety.
"It was a huge slide," he said. "It covered the valley floor from side to side." Dafoe said the slide began at a point between 2,200 to 2,300 vertical metres up Mount Cheops. It travelled for a kilometre and spread out half a kilometre at the sides. The toe of the slide ended at about the 1,500-metre elevation mark with parts of it more than five metres deep.
The rescuers, Abby Watkins and Rich Marshall, immediately skied down to the slide area and started to dig out those buried. The first person that they dug out called for help on his satellite phone, which mobilized a large rescue team. Then, as members of the group were freed from the slide, they helped dig out the others.
Please accept our (Parks Canadas) sincere thanks.
The three leaders were uninjured and are attending to the survivors, who were in Revelstoke on Saturday night after being airlifted first to Glacier Park Lodge by helicopter.
Topo Map segment showing location in relation to Hwy 1 and Rogers Pass
[Photos] [Media Reports]
[Official Reports] [Other Sources]
Brown said the skiers were not part of a commercial tour group.
Participating in such a difficult situation is very stressful. It is tragic that seven young people lost their lives in the accident, and the people of Revelstoke and Golden have shared this grief. The speedy rescue helped save the lives of the remaining 10 people in the group, and to quickly recover the victims.
It happened on the north face of the mountain in Connaught Creek Valley section of Balu Valley, about five kilometres west of the Rogers Pass summit. The group was led by two male teachers and a male volunteer. All had certification and back-country experience, Macoun said. The group had been skiing about 15 metres apart, with one supervisor in front and the other two bringing up the rear. The skiers were halfway up the valley when the avalanche roared down the north slope, burying nearly the entire group.
The area of Saturday's slide is not particularly remote, but Dunn said there were no groomed trails, "except people who have been there before you." But no guides are needed to ski in the area and skiers do not have to register before setting off. "It's a very, very popular ski destination site," said Dunn, media liaison officer at the national park.
The staff and management of Mount Revelstoke and Glacier National Parks would like to offer our gratitude and appreciation to all of the individuals who took part in the rescue efforts following the tragic avalanche of February 1, 2003.
The credit for the speed and efficiency of the entire rescue effort can be shared among all of those who participated in this rescue. Times such as these show how public safety professionals and volunteers truly rise to the occasion when called upon.
Dafoe said the investigation will continue but was almost certain it was a natural slide. "It (the slide trigger site) is so far from the bottom it seems unlikely it was human-triggered," he said.
Doyle said that at this time there are no plans yet to close back-country areas of the park.
Saturday's slide was unusually deadly, said Eric Dafoe, public safety officer with Parks Canada in Revelstoke. "We've never had an avalanche like this where we had a multiple number of
	people buried," said Dafoe, who worked on the rescue effort and flew over the slide as part the initial investigation.
Ruedi Beglinger, owner of Selkirk Mountain Experience and organizer of the fatal expedition last month, was with his clients when it struck. Contacted Saturday night, Beglinger did not want to comment on the level of experience necessary to ski the area where the students were caught. "There is an inherent risk (in back-country skiing) which is very important to talk about, an inherent risk people have to be willing to share amongst themselves (whether) they have a guide or not," he said.
REVELSTOKE, B.C. (CP) - Seven teens on a high-school ski excursion in the back country of east-central B.C. died Saturday when a half-kilometre-wide avalanche came down from above them and engulfed their group. It was the second deadly slide to hit the region in as many weeks. Seven adults perished in a slide in January.
The avalanche was "very powerful," with a rating from 3 to 3.5, compared with a top rating of 4, said Pat Dunn, a Parks Canada spokeswoman. "The size 3 to 3.5 avalanche could destroy a building . . . or 10 acres of forest," she said. The slide was 500 to 800 metres wide and travelled a kilometre down the slope. Some of the skiers were buried as deep as three metres, said Dunn.
"We are absolutely stricken with grief. Our hearts go out to all those who are impacted," Tony Macoun, head of the school, said in a written statement. Frantic parents gathered at the school Saturday night, arriving separately and in groups, embracing each other. No students were visible. "Our school is a small family and loss this extreme is impacting us tremendously," said Macoun. There were 17 people in the school group, three adults and 14 Grade 10 students in an outdoor education class, on their annual cross-country ski trip.
Another group of young skiers witnessed the avalanche and were among the first to help. A supervisor whose hand was just visible above the snow was the first to	be dug out. Once freed, he called park wardens on a satellite phone to raise the alarm. "Of the remaining students, six of the students are safe and one has a broken ankle," Macoun said in his statement.
The avalanche occurred on Mount Cheops in Glacier National Park just before noon, said Pam Doyle, superintendent for Parks Canada in Revelstoke.
"There are a couple of instabilities in our snow pack this winter . . .that may have contributed and further investigation will determine (that)."
by: Doreen McGillis, Parks Canada
(Published in the "Avalanche News" of the Canadian Avalanche Association)
Two people from the group were treated for minor injuries, said RCMP Sgt. Randy Brown.
Newspaper photo of slide area and slide runout
Upon hearing the number of people who were caught in this avalanche, the rescuers wondered how so many could be involved. Their answer came when they flew to the scene of the avalanche: It was huge. The fracture zone was about 800 metres wide and the run?out was more than a kilometre long.
On February 1, 2003, a huge avalanche swept into the Connaught Creek drainage of Glacier National Park and into the awareness of millions of Canadians. This avalanche accident attracted the attention of the nation. The seven victims of this avalanche were 15-year olds on a school field trip, and the accident happened less than two weeks after an avalanche that killed seven skiers in an area only 40 kilometres away.
The dead were six boys and one girl, all in Grade 10 at Strathcona-Tweedsmuir School, a private day school on an expansive rural campus in the foothills southwest of Calgary.
She said the group was carrying the proper avalanche-rescue equipment, including personal locator beacons and digging tools.
Park wardens, RCMP officers and local ski tour operators and guides, backed up by four or five helicopters and search dogs, joined in the rescue effort. Members of a Canadian Horse Artillery unit stationed in the park for avalanche-control work were also on hand to assist.