
Alone at the scene, the husband-and-wife team is faced with heartbreaking decisions. Who to save first? Not everybody would make it, they reason. But those trapped near the top would have a better shot at survival. Rich runs for the first hand he sees and begins digging. For the next 45 minutes, except for the victims, Rich and Abby are there by themselves, working to free as many as they can from their tombs of suffocating snow.
At that very moment, just before noon, something gives way on the rugged north face of Cheops Mountain. Abby and Rich hear a thunderous roar. They watch in horror as a torrent of snow hurtles to the valley, picking up speed and debris. The school group is directly in its path. Rich screams: "Avalanche! Avalanche! Avalanche!" The skiers look up. The guide's frantic warning comes too late. The avalanche hits them head on.
The victims are scattered beneath the snow. Rich and Abby split up to cover as much ground as possible. The first five people they pull out survive. Those survivors go on to rescue others. Everyone else Abby and Rich uncover is dead. The grim lottery of who shall live and who shall die is over. Seven students make it. Seven do not.
They are not alone. The mountain guides spot a school group getting ready to press ahead into the popular Balu Pass. Husband and wife pause to say hello. "It's a beautiful day out here, isn't it?" says Abby. "Yes," someone responds. They leave the 14 teenagers and three adults behind, climbing briskly until they stop for a break in a treed area.
In a matter of seconds, all 17 skiers are swept away in a huge, terrifying tangle of snow, rocks and trees. The swiftness and power of the avalanche sounds like a freight train moving at high speeds, Abby thinks. "A huge roar. The power of that much snow moving at the acceleration of gravity and propagating more and more snow on the way. . . . Nobody could have got out of the way. Nobody."
Up in the trees, Abby Watkins and Rich Marshall are dusted by a thick cloud of powder. A terrible silence falls over the valley. Though their hearts are thumping, they shut down their emotions. On goes the search-and-rescue switch, one they have trained for years to put into practice.
It's a soft, grey morning. The ground is blanketed by eight centimetres of fresh snow. The temperature hovers around zero. The past 24 hours have been avalanche-free, and Abby Watkins and Rich Marshall are eager to get in a day of backcountry skiing amid the mountainous sweep near the summit of Rogers Pass in eastern British Columbia.
One survivor, with a broken ankle, is tobogganed out and airlifted to hospital. The remaining survivors are transported by helicopter to the cafeteria of the park warden's station. The bodies go too. They are laid out on mats in a makeshift morgue in the same building. Chuck Purse, Revelstoke's part-time coroner, is investigating his second seven-death avalanche within two weeks. He examines each body in turn. None show signs of major injury. They were simply swept away, buried and died from asphyxiation.
They race down to the first group of buried skiers. The only sign of life is an odd hand and a few legs poking through the snow. The others, in the toe of the slide at the bottom of the valley, are buried much deeper.
The guides' transceivers work perfectly, honing in with beeps and flashing lights on the buried skiers equipped with their own avalanche beacons, like shouts from the grave. The couple follows the rules of avalanche rescue like clockwork. Only dig to a victim to make sure he or she is breathing. Clear snow from the victim's face. No CPR before moving on to the next victim. There are too many. Let survivors dig themselves out.