
We have previously demonstrated strong prejudice against heroin 
              users and ex-users amongst a population of University students. 
              In contrast, this population positively discriminated in favour 
              of disabled people. In this study, we have considered whether the 
              prejudice towards heroin users can be generalised to other drug 
              users. A summary of the research is presented here.
Participants (n = 24 to 31 per group) were asked to indicate their 
              attitude towards Jim using a thermometer measure ranging from 100 
              (extremely favourable) to 50 (neither favourable or unfavourable) 
              to 0 (extremely unfavourable). The mean scores for each group were: 
              heroin 35.2; cocaine 37.2; crack 41.7; ecstasy 34.2; cannabis 40.7; 
              alcohol 32.6. All scores were significantly different to the scale 
              midpoint, indicating negative attitudes overall, with the various 
              drug types not differing from one another.
Participants were asked their emotions and feelings towards Jim. 
              The most common response was anger, with 54-63% of subjects expressing 
              this emotion towards Jim as a heavy user of any of the five drugs, 
              with 35% reporting anger when Jim was presented as a heavy alcohol 
              user.
Sophie Capo-Bianco, Abby Watkins, Leanne Crowley, Gordon Hodson 
              and David Clark

Students read a short scenario describing Jim and his life. In 
              some questionnaires, Jim was described as a "heavy cannabis 
              user" showing a number of negative outcomes (e.g. depressed 
              mood, lost job, financial difficulties) as a result of his heavy 
              use. In other questionnaires, Jim was a heavy user of alcohol, ecstasy, 
              cocaine, crack or heroin, experiencing identical negative outcomes.
Prejudice against drug users
Respondents viewed that Jim (using each of the drugs and alcohol) 
              was responsible for his unemployment and for solving his unemployment 
              problem himself. They also considered it unlikely that Jim (in each 
              scenario) would get a new job in the next six months, and if he 
              did, would be unlikely to keep it. There were no differences between 
              the drug conditions.

              These findings demonstrate, in University students, a general prejudice 
              towards heavy users of not just heroin, but also crack, cocaine, 
              ecstasy, cannabis and alcohol. Despite differences in legal status, 
              health effects and links to criminal activity, the drugs in this 
              study were perceived as similar when participants were asked their 
              attitudes towards someone who had experienced negative outcomes 
              from their long-term use.
(WIRED and Department of Psychology, University of Wales Swansea)
All drug groups were seen to threaten a number of values in British 
              society -family values, economic prosperity, personal safety, law 
              and order, health, and national security (!). Any differences between 
              the various drug conditions were insubstantial