
Watkins -- who has training in such rescues but was never pressed to use her skills until Saturday morning -- and her husband, turned their avalanche beacons from send to receive mode and started digging down to the rest of the group.
"Parks Canada has counsellors at the ready."]]>
"I was thinking a lot but I was mostly on autopilot," Watkins said.
"(The victims) were in the worst possible situation at the worst time and we were in the best position to stage a rescue," the 33-year-old assistant alpine guide said yesterday from her home here.
GOLDEN, B.C. -- More than seven people would have certainly died in a weekend avalanche if not for her rescue efforts, but Abby Watkins says she's no hero.
She credits her husband for keeping her focused.
"It was very fast-moving and when it hit the kids it carried them for 10 or 20 metres before it stopped."
By the time the organized rescue party arrived, all but two had been accounted for.
The teens, although shaken by the twist of events that turned a pleasant field trip into an unthinkable nightmare, almost immediately pitched in with little urging from Marshall and Watkins.
As one person was freed they, too, would start digging through the snow searching for their peers.
Watkins and her husband Rich Marshall were skiing just above a group of 17 Strathcona-Tweedsmuir school students, two teachers and an adult chaperone near Rogers Pass Saturday morning when the pair saw the avalanche begin.
They tirelessly dug through the compacted snow while Watkins and her husband talked to the traumatized teens, assuring them help was close at hand.
Despite the couple's warning shouts, all 17 were hit by the fast-moving wall of snow.
"We didn't sleep too well last night," she said, adding she may want to talk to someone later.
"They wanted to do something," Watkins said.
Watkins said some of the survivors' parents have thanked her but she has not dealt emotionally with the weekend's events.
"Anybody would have done the same thing."
"There was nothing they could do but brace themselves," Watkins recalled.
All they could see was a single arm reaching through the snow.

They freed that person -- an adult chaperone with a satellite phone that was used to call park wardens for help.

As soon as the killer wave of snow came to rest, Watkins and her husband skied about 100 metres through the trees to reach the buried group.