
Abby 
              and Kathy gave well-received slide shows attended by the "chicks" 
              as well as by local residents and visiting climbers. These events, 
              featuring auctions and a bar stocked by a local brewery ("cheap 
              gear and free beer"), benefit a local women's shelter and every 
              year raise more money for a great cause. Kathy says she feels honored 
              and privileged to be a part of this event, which she looks forward 
              to every February.
A 
              Winter at Home (mostly)
In 
              late January Kathy headed back to Ouray, Colorado for the 3rd annual 
              "Chicks With Picks" event hosted by Kim Reynolds of San 
              Juan Mountain Guides of Ouray. This year Chicks was better attended 
              and organized even than before. The clinic was expanded to include 
              a few more participants, and several new, extremely strong and professional 
              guides joined the line-up: Carolyn Parker, Abby Watkins, Mattie 
              Sheafor, Anna Keeling and Amy Bullard joined the established group 
              of Kitty Calhoun, Angela Hawse, Jen Grimes and Kathy. The depth 
              and strength of this group of instructors allows women of all levels 
              of experience and ability, from absolute beginners to experienced 
              leaders and mixed climbers, to be challenged and get a lot of climbing 
              and learning in a short time.
Now 
              we're breaking in our tight little rock shoes, and trying to get 
              out rock climbing in the Owens River Gorge a couple of times per 
              week. Spring is just around the corner, and we want to be in shape 
              for it, and for y'all!
We 
              hadn't been home long before Chris Kulp made the drive over the 
              hill for a quick climb of the North Ridge of Conness, a great fall 
              day. This winter we have been working away on a writing project, 
              and skiing and climbing too. Since January our skis have had less 
              use than our ice climbing gear however. Kim McElhinney and Hugh 
              Driscoll came out for a weekend at Lee Vining with Kathy, while 
              Mark roped up with several other visitors: Chris Kulp, Frank Sainburg 
              of Avila Beach, Wanda Neste of Palm Springs, and Scott Anderson 
              of Pacific Palisades.