
Adopting Fair Climbing Management Policies: Several strategic management plans for our national forests, parks and wilderness areas are in development. Many of these plans will affect climbing at several well-known areas including Kentucky‚s Red River Gorge, the New River Gorge in West Virginia, Tennessee‚s Obed Scenic and Wild River Area and Indian Creek in Utah. The Access Fund is involved with agency personnel at these areas and others with climbing resources. You can count on the Access Fund to continue to work on behalf of your climbing freedoms and privileges.
As we approach the end of 2000 I just wanted to reflect on some of the Access Fund's significant accomplishments. The Access Fund‚s 10th year has been very exciting, productive and positive. We have been taking many strides toward keeping your climbing freedoms alive. Climbers are still facing many critical issues and the Access Fund is on the forefront, representing your interests.
The Outdoor Network office recently received the following from The Access Fund:
Adopt-a-Crag 2000: Over 65 events were organized this year as part of the inaugural Adopt-a-Crag Day celebration on September 9, 2000. These events mobilized local climbing communities around the country. Trail projects, chalk cleanups and trash collection activities were performed at climbing areas around the country. The planning for Adopt-a-Crag 2001 is already underway.
Top events in 2000: Ed Viesturs Endeavor 8000, $5492; 17th Annual Phoenix Bouldering Contest, $5, 185; Climb Smart 4, Adventure 16, San Diego CA $4500; International Outdoor Festival, Aspen, CO, $3622; Ouray Ice Festival, $2641.24, 7th Annual Hound Ears Bouldering Comp, NC, $2640; Climb-o-rama, Boulder Rock Club, CO $2569; 7th Annual International Climbers Festival, Lander WY, $2,373; Pocatello Pump, Idaho State University Pocatello ID, $1,862; Abby Watkins first ascent of Changi Tower, Skinny Skis Jackson, WY $1,387.
December 29, 2000
The Access Fund thanks you for your support this year. We wish you and your family a healthy & joyous holiday season and safe climbing in 2001!
Kickin‚ Access Campaign: This year the Access Fund celebrated its 10th anniversary. The campaign generated awareness and direct action by the climbing community. Climbers were encouraged to complete tick lists of political and conservation actions ranging from writing letters to Congress to committing to Leave No Trace practices. Climbers completed nearly 10,000 actions throughout the year!
Preserving Wilderness Climbing Opportunities: The US Forest Service decision regarding climber‚s use of fixed anchors is pending a final outcome. Classic wilderness routes from Tahquitz and Suicide Rocks in California to the Linville Gorge in North Carolina are at risk from the US Forest Service‚s Negotiated Rulemaking process. The Access Fund‚s involvement in this process is to preserve climbers‚ use of fixed pitons, slings, bolts and other technical equipment in Wilderness areas managed by the Forest Service. Your contribution kept the Access Fund engaged in this process.
Recent Successes: Amazing climbing opportunities are poised to open in 2001. The Access Fund‚s involvement with Quartz Mountain will preserve 120 acres of private land at Baldy Point in the Wichita Mountains. A complex land swap at Castle Rock Ranch, ID involving the Access Fund, Conservation Fund, National Park Service and Idaho State Parks will ensure access to 400 acres of outstanding granite for climbing. In addition, approval of the Backcountry & Wilderness Management Plan at Joshua Tree National Park, CA that embraces climbing values was completed earlier.
