



(8) Erin Medlin, Hugo Allen with Liz Newell laying across, 
Jill Michael and Bill Leonard back to us



(2) Becca 
(ctr) and Kim Cashbaugh (rt) talk with others                           
(3) Mrs Murto talking with ? and Rene Peeters with ?


The Day After... last day together


Cant tell in the first three in the dark.. then Sandy and Jim 
Christiansen, Cindy Singleton, Sean Watkins and Randy (aka Lynn) Medlin.

(9) Even Center far 
left, Millie Michael with Mrs and Mrs Maynard                   
(10)  Marcia Murto, Wally Fitzgerald, Elaine Clark , and ? help me folks..
(26) Bo and Jim Brigida with uknown friend on left, (27)  
and Liz Newell on right
(18) Dennis Mitchell,  ? in blue, Rene Peeters and his 
wife visit with Sandy Brady Christiansen in Center


Coffee in the ASV 
Suite                                                                                   
Becky? Heart and son, Becca Coleman and Chris Tovar

(24)  Curt and 
Terri Koenne                                                                                                  
(25) Elaine Clark, Nancy Newell, Nina Allen (r)


(7) Jim and Bo Brigida
(19) Becca Coleman and husband Bill 
Tinon                        
(20) Becky McCluskey on right.. is gentleman on left her hubby? unsure of center


(21) Jean Clark?, Bill Leonard and wife, and she doesn't seem to age..Vicki Leonard

(28) Eve Center


(15) Forgive me Clarks if I get this wrong..L-R , Gary and 
wife,  wife and Todd, Elaine and Kim Cashbaugh

(11) ? in grey, Kim 
Cashbaugh and DennisMitchell Center                                     
(12)     I apologize, not sure who this lovely couple is, 
the Gullions?


Same 4.. different order :)
(13) Liz Newel, Becca Coleman, Marcia Murto                                                     
(14) Liz Newell, sorry I can't identify the others around the table


Chris Tovar, Jill Michael, Janet Brundage, Jennifer Hynes
(22) Nancy Newell, Mike Correa in center are only 2 
I can be sure of               
(23)  Gully's wife, is that his dad? and Gully and Mr Maynard?
Heart sister? Chris Tovar, Jill Michael, Janet Brundage, 
Jennifer Hynes, Doug Bonner

Nina Allen, Jim Brigida, Hugo's back, 
Bo Brigida,  ? and Jill                     
Liz, Chris , Jennifer, wife and Bill Leonard , Becky M, ?, Wally at head
(16)  Brigida brothers dress it 
up, that long pony tail on the right is my Bill.       
(17) Center folks are Brigida Brothers and Bill Leonard and wife
The next few shots are from the "ceremony" portion of the 
Reunion Dinner, Marcia Murto was Mistress of Ceremonies

(4) I think that is 2 Heart sisters talking with Becca on the 
left and David Murto in back, with Mrs Murto and Millie Michael in front.


Nina, Jennifer and Jill                                                                                     
Jill and Liz


Abby Watkins, Nancy Newell, Mary LeClaire, Jean Clark, Kristen 
Clark, Janet Brundage, Rene Peeters

(5) David Murto and Bill Leonard                                                    
(6) David Murto, Bill Leonard, Wendy and Millie Michael center back by pole.

