
Two days later I left the 
 valley for the last time on this trip, as rain and the first snow fell.
We alternated leads most of
the way to the top, passing a team of four Italians on the second last /
last pitch. We reached the top nine hours and twenty two minutes after we
had started. Brilliant!!!! This was my third time up El Cap and Hans' sixty
sixth time. The walk down took 1 hour and 10 minutes. It felt very good just
to be able to sit in the car.
Every time I look up at El 
 Cap in Yosemite Valley I think to myself; that is one huge piece of rock.
Three pitches a day is about 
 the going rate for A3 or harder when soloing, and that’s what I was managing 
 on the headwall.
We awoke at 05h00am, had breakfast
and set off. We started the climb at 06h50am. As I did not enjoy the first
couple of pitches on my earlier ascent, Hans led to Sickle Ledge. I took
the lead from there, and led up the Stovelegs (these pitches were named by
Warren Harding who opened the route in 1958 when he used pitons made from
the legs of an old stove as protection). Hans simul-climbed below me. We
passed one party of two climbers who happily let us by. Hans lead the last
pitch up to Dolt Tower with me jugging on the line he fixed. It is quicker
if the leader gets to a stance, fixes the rope and the seconder juggs up
and cleans the pitch. We reached Dolt Tower in just over two hours which,
on the previous trip had taken us 2 days.
When I was learning to rope 
 solo, I had rope soloed the first ten pitches to Mammoth Ledges (same first 
 ten pitches as Free Blast and Salethe), from where there are fixed lines 
all the way down to the ground.  When I was ready for the route, I jugged
 up those lines with all my requirements for 5 days.  I managed two
pitches  higher than the fixed ropes and as it was getting dark I set up
the porta  ledge and was comfy asleep, when it started raining.  So
in the dark  and rain I had to re-setup the porta ledge with the fly, which
was brand new and had not been seam sealed.  It kept raining until about
8 in the morning.  The wind was blowing the whole ledge around. 
I was not far from this little gully, which the rain turned into a river. 
This all made for an unpleasant adventure.  Most of the things got fairly
 wet during the night and as I had lost my enthusiasm to continue, retreat
 was still possible as I was not to high, so I fixed some lines and abseiled
 all the way down to the ground, leaving the gear at my high point. 
Spent the weekend re-motivating in San Francisco and had loads of fun, as
it was Halloween.
The hike down was absolutely 
 terrible having to carry all that equipment. The route was opened in 1972. 
 The speed record for the Shield from bottom to top is an incredible ten hours
fifty eight minutes.
When Mike, Marianne and Dermot had left the Valley, I needed something to climb and so the idea to solo 
the Shield popped into my head.  I had never soloed a big wall before and only practiced rope soloing on two other occasions.
Extreme Thanks go to Hans 
 Florine, Abby Watkins, Dan Dunkal, Craig Calonica and Dan Mc Divett, who 
let me use and abuse their gear.
When Hans said to me that 
 he had a free day to go climbing, I hinted that I was keen to climb the Nose
and thus we made plans to climb it in a day. As Hans had climbed the route
31 times before (he holds the record for most Nose ascents), he knew the
exact rack of gear needed. The rack consisted of double caming devices from
00 to two inch and one each of three and four inch. A couple of quick draws
and six nuts were taken, mainly micro nuts. One 60 m rope, two ascenders and
some aiders. 4 liters of water, some Power bars and peanuts.
Marianne Pretorius and I climbed
the Nose together in August. It took us four days. Mike Mason and Dermot
Brogan started ahead of us and it took them 5 days. When one is on a big
wall for four days one has to haul a lot of items up, water, food, sleeping
bags etc. and thus the haul bag can weigh over 40 kg. This slows one's climbing
down considerably because the haulbag needs to get pulled up at every stance.
Hans led the pitch up to the
Great Roof, then I led the Great Roof which took me 28 minutes to lead and
7 minutes for Hans to clean it, thus taking 35 min for that pitch. I was
leading using Hans' super light aiders and whilst stepping up on a piece
 of gear, one of the straps on the aiders snapped, letting me drop about
20  cm before it caught me again, thus sending some adrenaline through my
system.  This pitch has only been free climbed by Lynn Hill and Scott Burke.
IT LOOKS  AMAZINGLY SUPER DIFFICULT!!!!!
Monday, I jugged back up the
lines, climbed some more pitches and set up the ledge below a big roof.  
 There were three American climbers on a route called Albatross, which runs 
 parallel to the Shield and only about thirty to forty meters to the left.  
 Therefore I had some company as we shouted across to each other every now 
 and then.  In the morning I lead the roof pitch, which brought me straight
 onto the headwall. The exposure started to kick in……..in a big way. 
 The Shield headwall starts about 500m up, is blank, slightly bulging, slightly
 overhanging and smooth except for a thin crack/seam running up it. 
In many places copper heads and rurps (baby pitons) are the only things that
 will fit.  There were a lot of fixed copper heads so I did not have
to place any (which was good because I only had two copperheads anyway). 
 I did not clip the copperheads because in the event of a fall they would
probably be ripped out, and I would be unable to put in more.  This
caused me to lead out several times. This was the case when I was nearing
the bolts, but I could just not reach them. There was some sling tape around
the bolt so I clipped my aiders into that and stood in them. I was about
to clip into the bolt direct when I heard this frightening tear and the next
sensation was falling through the air upside down.  It was amazing how
fast I thought about:  the last placement I had clipped; if it would
hold; how far was I going to fall.  Thank goodness this old fixed aluminum
 piton held and I came to an upside down halt about eight meters lower than
 I was a few seconds earlier.  Thank goodness this rope soloing technique
 works!!!!!!
Above the head wall, ledges 
 start appearing which makes biving/sleeping much easier.  The penultimate 
 pitch is a big fun roof and the last pitch a chimney.  The only problem 
 I had was on the last haul when I was hauling the last two pitches in one. 
 The fifi hook would not release from the bolt, so I had to abseil back down
 over the roof…. hanging in mid air a 1000m up, then pull myself back into
 the stance to release the bag and then jumar back up.  A couple of
meters  of grade four scrambling and I was at the TOP!!!!….. time for a beer. 
 Ahhhh after seven days climbing it felt great to be at the top!
I managed to get back up to
the bolts making sure I clipped the bolts this time and then set up camp. 
 To the left and right and up and down there was just blank rock with only
 this three or four millimeter wide crack/seam leading the way.
I free climbed the next pitch 
 called the Pancake Flake which has its name due to it being a thin flake 
that forms a super lay back. Free climbing this pitch at about grade 19/20 
is super because one is about 500m up and there 
  is great exposure.
I managed to take another 
 two falls higher up on the head wall when gear popped.  The one fall 
 was about ten meters and as I was falling it was ripping out lots of the 
gear I had placed.  When I finally came to a halt, all the popped gear 
slid down the rope towards me, in this instance about 6 pieces of gear. 
 I then went back up, hammering in those pitons, which I had been slightly
 reluctant to do, as getting pitons out is more work.
I led on towards El Cap Tower. 
 As I had been up the Texas Flake and  the Bootleg Flake with Marianne, 
 we decided on doing the Jardine Traverse, a slight variation to the route. 
 Three more pitches and we were at camp four, the half way mark on the route. 
 We sat for a couple of minutes, ate some food, drank some water, and enjoyed 
 the amazing view... it was so cool!
Going to the toilet can be 
 an interesting affair. The rules are, climbers must carry a porta potty.  
 So, one has to do one’s business into a brown paper bag and then put this 
 into the porta potty, which can be a bucket with a lid or a large PVC pipe 
 with lids.  Aiming into the paper bag is vital when on a porta ledge, 
 as soiling the ledge would not be fun, as this is the kitchen, the bed and
 the bathroom.
This is a super route, with 
 excellent cracks in clean solid granite. Highly recommended!!! I was very 
 fortunate to be able to climb this route with Hans Florine.