
Restoring them would create jobs, increase tax revenues, reduce commuting times and ease pressure to develop cropland, wooded areas and recreational land around cities.
But while the authors applauded Quebec's efforts, they were quick to point out it's not that the province is doing such a spectacular job in providing day-care funding. Rather, the rest of the country is doing a dismal job of it.
Crumbling warehouses, rusting refineries and abandoned gas stations represent a major economic opportunity for Canada, says a federal study.
Loans, grants and regulatory changes are needed to encourage remediation of such sites across Canada, says the report.
Macoun was joined by hundreds of mourners at the Pengrowth Saddledome in remembering the seven Grade 10 students who were killed Feb. 1 when a concrete-like wall of snow crashed down upon them during a backcountry ski trip near Revelstoke, British Columbia
---
Brownfields damage a neighborhoods image and quality of life and represent a major loss of economic opportunity, says the report.
The report was produced by the childcare resource and research unit of the University of Toronto, a group which Friendly heads. The report, which is based on data from 2001, is the fourth looking at the early childhood education and care sector in the country. Earlier reports were released in 1992, 1995 and 1998.
"If you look at Quebec since they started developing the new program, they've put in a huge number of spaces. Now do I think it's exactly been done right? Well no, I don't really. But it's been done in the right ballpark," said Martha Friendly, one of the report's authors.
"You can't make it spring up from nothing. You have to have people and you have to have places to put it and all that stuff. And the problem is the rest of Canada has not started essentially."
"We have lost seven students, but also seven future leaders, seven great adventurers and seven brilliant young people," said Macoun, noting that the school's loss pales in comparison with that of the families.
TORONTO (AP) - Quebec is leaving the rest of the country in the dust when it comes to child care and early childhood education spending, a report released Monday reveals.
"Never in our wildest dreams could we have imagined that any single community would be asked to withstand such an overwhelming burden of grief in a single stroke," said Tony Macoun, headmaster at Strathcona-Tweedsmuir, a small private school located just south of Calgary near Okotoks.
Public Memorial Held for Students Killed in Avalanche
"This has indeed been an impossible week of sorrow."
Need for Child Care Vastly Outstripped by Availability
The latest shows that spending on child care outside of Quebec has actually decreased over the past decade, dropping by about $70 million in 2001 constant dollars.
Among the guests were Alberta Premier Ralph Klein and British Columbia mountain guides Abby Watkins and Rich Marshall, who are credited with saving at least five of the 10 survivors of the slide.
"Brownfield redevelopment in Canada has the potential to bring billions and billions and billions of dollars in economic benefits," said David McGuinty, president of the federal research body.
Cleaning up an estimated 30,000 so-called "brownfields" in cities and towns could bring $7 billion in benefits, the National Round Table on the Environment and the Economy says in a report released Monday.
The report does not estimate costs of cleaning up the thousands of polluted sites.
CALGARY (AP) - A final farewell to seven teenaged classmates killed in an avalanche 10 days ago paid tribute Monday to their adventurous spirits and the void left by their deaths.
A brownfield is an abandoned, vacant or derelict site, contaminated by past industrial activity.
Tears flowed often as mourners recalled Ben Albert, Daniel Arato, Scott Broshko, Alex Pattillo, Michael Shaw, Marissa Staddon and Jeff Trickett. All were 15.
The emotional memorial followed a week of funerals for the teens, who were heralded for their accomplishments, their compassion and their love of life.
For example, restoring brownfields in Toronto would probably bring an extra $100 million in annual tax revenue, said Angus Ross, one of the study's authors.
OTTAWA - Cleaning Polluted Urban Lands Could Bring $7 Billion Benefit