
 Paul and Coal Clough
Historical Associations:
Aesthetic Characteristics: 
        Dramatic views along the Cliviger Gorge.
Other Information: 
        Detailed descriptions in "Yorkshire Rocks and Lanscape" by the 
        Yorkshire Geological Society.
Access and Safety:
        Permission is required from Coal Clough Farm to visit Coal Clough. Paul 
        Clough is accessible
        by public footpath as far as Stiperden House Farm. It is advisable to 
        park in Cornholme and walk
        up Pudsey Clough to reach the cloughs.
SITE NAME: Paul and Coal Clough
        STATUS: RIGS site
        COUNTY: West Yorkshire
        DISTRICT: Calderdale
        NATIONAL GRID REF. Coal Clough: 904273 to 904275 Paul Clough: 907272 to 
        908278 O.S.SHEET: 1:25,000 SD 82/92
SITE DESCRIPTION 
        Scientific Importance:
        Coal Clough - Sediments from the Lower Coal Measures are exposed in a 
        100 metre long cliff
        section, along the west bank of Coal Clough. The Lower Mountain Coal Seam 
        outcrops at the
        base of the cliff. Goniatites and radially ribbed Dunbarella bivalves 
        are found within a marine
        band which directly overlays the coal seam. Of particular interest are 
        the uncrushed goniatites
        preserved in nodules within the sediments.
        Paul Clough - Rocks from the Millstone Grit Series are exposed at several 
        localitites along the
        length of the clough. The steep dip of the rocks enables a large amount 
        of strata to be seen within
        a relatively small area. A series of marine bands are present within within 
        the shale exposures
        in the clough. Exposures of Rough Rock outcrop in a gorge forming the 
        lower reaches of the
        clough.
Educational Value:
        The walk to Paul and Coal Cloughs is rewarded by extensive exposures of 
        Coal Measures and
        Millstone Grit strata. The presence of marine bands containing well preserved 
        fossils is an
        additional interest. Suitable for small groups of secondary and higher 
        level students.
Geological Sites | Leeds 
        | Bradford | Calderdale 
        | Kirklees | Wakefield
Ownership: