
Friday 10th of June – 11am
1970 - 2005
The Memorial Service was Conducted by Captain Tony 
                Norris, who did an excellent job of setting the desired mood of 
                the Memorial as a Celebration of Life, rather than a morbid or 
                sombre affair. That is not to say there were no tears, there were 
                plenty, I doubt there was a dry eye in the gathering of family, 
                friends, colleagues and honouraries at several stages... however 
                the Memorial was very much a Celebration of a very funny and much 
                loved man.
Tony opened the memorial by giving the "Forever 
                in our Hearts" Eulogy of Paul's life, from the time he was 
                born right through the various stages and developmental roads 
                that Paul walked confidently along. It was a fine summation of 
                Paul, of his life, loves and nature for those who may not have 
                known him quite as well as his much admired big brother did.
Everyone in attendance that day would agree it was 
                a superb and fitting tribute in Celebration of Paul's wonderful 
                life, that beautifully showcased his 2 successful careers, his 
                passions and commitments, the love of his family, and of his friends, 
                his incredible sense of humour, and of course the wonderful relationship 
                he had with the woman who was his soulmate and greatest love.

ISAIAH 40
Farewell Captain Paul Norris - FOREVER 
                IN OUR HEARTS...
But they that wait upon the 
LORD shall renew their strength;
                they shall mount up with wings as eagles;
                they shall run, and not be weary;
                and they shall walk and not faint.
Tony then introduced David Fewtrell, Paul's Brother 
                in Law, who delivered an incredibly poetic and moving tribute 
                to Paul that he had written (to be posted in the tributes page 
                on this site) finishing by relating a funny anecdote, which was 
                so typically Paulie, that everyone who knew him could not help 
                but have a laugh!
Then it was time for Fiona, Paul's wife to speak 
                of the man who was without doubt the love of her life, as Fiona 
                was for Paul...her composed, eloquent and heart wrenching dedication 
                to the love, life and many adventures they had shared, touched 
                everyone deeply. Fiona's tribute and dedication of love was followed 
                by the final montage of photos of the two of them over the nearly 
                14 years they had lived, loved and shared together, this was set 
                to Van Morrison's -" Have I told you lately (that I love 
                you)".
The prayer was followed by a candle lighting ceremony. 
                There were 15 candles, one for each of the souls on the plane 
                that fateful day, and one by one, they were lit by those closest 
                to Paul, culminating in Fiona lighting the Candle that represented 
                Paul's soul... this was accompanied by a simple and spiritual 
                version of the song "Danny Boy", and was incredibly 
                moving.
A stunning montage of photos of Paul as a child 
                was then displayed on the large Screen, images fitting perfectly 
                to a track by one of Paul's favourite bands; Dire Straits - On 
                Every Street
On this day, which fittingly, was perfect weather 
                for flying - blue skies and unseasonably warm and sunny, a beautiful 
                Memorial Service was conducted to celebrate the life of Paul.
Camden Airport – Marquee at Hangar 54
Fellow Aviators, and close friends Paul Clough and 
                Tim then presented a very humourous tribute, focused on the lighter 
                side of Paul's recent years, his practical jokes, and ever ready 
                smile and big raucous laugh.... along with Paul's love of a well 
                earned beer, and his legendary skills behind a BBQ! Paul truly 
                deserved the title bestowed on him many years previously as "Barbie 
                Master"
Following the screen presentation, Kieran a colleague 
                and best flying buddy of Paul's gave his tribute, which was a 
                heartfelt honouring of a fellow pilot, mentor, a man who he considered 
                more a big brother than fellow aviator. Kieren spoke of the flying 
                they had undertaken together, and of the many nights of laughter 
                that he and Paul had shared, and related how he too had fallen 
                prey to one of Paul's many "fake accent" prang calls, 
                such prangs were a source of huge amusement to Paul, - and as 
                they never contained even a hint of malice - always to the intended 
                victim as well. Kieren's beautiful tribute was another example 
                of the love and humour that Paul spread where ever he went.
Kim Ritchie, Paul's sister then recited a poem in 
                his honour, this was followed by the song "He ain't heavy, 
                he's my brother".
Proceedings where concluded within the marquee by 
                Tony thanking the many people who had been involved in the organisation, 
                and preparation of the Memorial Service, followed by the bagpiper 
                played Amazing Grace.
Inside the Marquee were hundreds of yellow roses, 
                and a tribute table which held an urn containing Paul's ashes, 
                photos of Paul, the Memorial Service guest book which had been 
                produced as a Pilot's Log Book, along with a Qantas Captain's 
                hat (generously donated and provided by Qantas, in honour of Paul's 
                dream of one day flying a big red kangaroo - all Paul's family 
                acknowledge and thank Qantas deeply for their compassion and for 
                honouring Paul's dream)
Major David Knight of the Salvation Army, then led 
                the assembled in a prayer and committed Paul's soul to God.
Memorial Service
On arrival, guests were greeted with the sound of 
                a lone bagpiper playing and the sight of some of the restored 
                vintage planes taking off and doing aerobatics overhead, which 
                we know Paul would have just loved to have seen. Additionally 
                there was a Lear Jet parked near the Marquee, which had most of 
                the large group of Pilot attendees drooling!
The Sydney Morning Herald newspaper were in attendance, 
                and an article appeared on Page 10 of the Saturday June 11th edition 
                of the paper, and is available online for viewing... HERE
He giveth power to the faint;
                and to them that have no might
                he increaseth strength.
The event was organised and presented with love, 
                devotion and total professionalism, by Fiona Curran-Norris, Lisa 
                Curran, David Fewtrell, Pieter Mackay-Smith and Captain Tony Norris.
Outside, refreshments were served, and those in 
                attendance stood and watched as overhead a symbolic and tear jerking 
                fly past was conducted, involving 3 planes in tight formation 
                flying very low and then at an appropriate place, one peeling 
                off and disappearing.
Pieter Mackay-Smith, who was stunningly dressed 
                in kilt and full regalia in honour of he and Paul's shared Scottish 
                heritage, was then called on to give his tribute to Paul, appropriately 
                titled "Tribute to my Best Friend - Captain Paul Norris" 
                Pieter's touching tribute to a man who was for most of his life 
                more a brother than best friend, and with whom he had shared so 
                many of life's experiences, was followed by another montage of 
                photos of Paul on the big screen accompanied by Jimmy Barnes - 
                "Flame Trees"
Even the youths shall faint and be weary,
and the young men shall utterly fall:
Afterwards, many guests attended a function at the 
                home Paul and Fiona had shared, it was a wonderful opportunity 
                to share stories of Paul's wit and also to share the sadness we 
                all feel at his loss.