
This is an ideal part of the Cliviger Valley where you can see a variety of rocks from that part of the Carboniferous Period (Namurian & Westphalian) times.
There is evidence of small scale coal mining in the Clough so care must be taken when visiting the locality.  As always please check with the farmer at Coal Clough Farm for permission to enter the Clough.
Woodhead Hill Rock
The Rough Rock outcrop in Paul Clough is a very coarse-grained multi-storey and multilateral fluvial sheet sandstone which is the most widespread Namurian sandstone in the Pennine Basin.

This is a view of Cornholme from Shore Road. Pudsey Clough, leading to Coal Clough and Paul Clough, lies in the steep valley in the bottom corner of the photograph.
Rough Rock
To the right and above the marine band is the Cancelloceras cumbriense marine band.
The basal contact of the sandstone with the underlying shale is erosive. The shale bed contains frequent siderite concretions.
In the bottom left hand corner of the photo is Lower Haslingden Flagstones. Between the flagstones and the marine band are weathered siltstones.
The Rough Rock is exposed in disused quarries on either side of the stream which incidentally forms the County Boundary between Lancashire and Yorkshire. Notice the Old Pack Horse Bridge. Beyond the bridge are potholes in the stream bed - an unusual feature in the Rough Rock.
The Lower Mountain Mine outcrops at stream level as can be seen in the photograph. Above the coal seam, marine fossils can be found in the shales. They include the ubiquitous Dunbarella papyraceous and Gastrioceras listeri, the zonal goniatite for this section.
Coal Clough exposes a superb section through Namurian and Westphalian mud rock cyclothem. Access to the base of the cliff section is not easy as you can see by the scree debris in the photograph.
To the right of the photograph the basal section of the Ganister Rock contains large rafts of coal. It is not easily accessible but can be seen clearly from the beck.
NB: In Paul Clough you will in fact be going down the Carboniferous succession i.e. the rocks will get progressively older.  In Coal Clough you will be climbing up the succession into younger rocks.
Owd Bett's Marine Band
After a short walk up Pudsey Road from the A646 (T) the prominent outcrop of Reddish Rocks will become apparent. Take the trackway towards this outcrop, keep left, then you will shortly arrive at the entrance to Paul Clough and Coal Clough. Permission to enter Coal Clough must be obtained from Coal Clough Farm. The Gastrioceras subcrenatum marine band can be found in the shale bank shown above.
This is a Lower Coal Measures coarse current bedded sandstone exposed along the trackway to the left of the entrance to Coal Clough Farm.
The contorted shale bed below is probably a product of downslope movement of the sand body. Prior to arriving at this locality have a look in the shale for the Gastrioceras subcrenatum marine band. See also Beacon Rock on Dean Scout.
Ganister Rock
Coal Clough Shales
Key marine bands and coal seams are accessible in particular the Lower Mountain Mine and the Gastrioceras listeri marine band.
Marine bands, coarse-grained feldspathic sandstones, interbedded and subordinate mudstones, siltstones, fine-grained sandstones and minor coal and seatearths are typical lithologies associated with Pudsey Clough. The localities follow the Chapter 8 in the Yorkshire Geological Society's Yorkshire Rocks and Landscape - A Field Guide. (NB. Localities 7 & 8 are not covered on the site).
The marine band was named Owd Bett's after a nearby public house that lies within walking distance of Cheesden Brook, near Bury, Greater Manchester.