
Trial
History.
Trial dates set, and then
rescheduled, were 2000: 1/6, 2/14, 3/16, 4/20, 6/15, 7/6,
8/17, 10/19, 11/22, 12/14; 2001: 1/4, 2/2, 2/23, 3/30. The
actual trial was 4-30-01.
FAILURE
#5: The press dutifully reported
that a helmetless cyclist died in a collision, and made no mention of
the red-light-running or the drinking (since those items weren't in
the press release), leading the public to believe that it was the
stupid cyclist's fault for getting killed.
Controversy
about defendant's attorney.
We did some poking around and discovered that the motorist's
lawyer, Rip Collins, is friends with at least one local judge. Here's
an
article in the Ft. Worth Star-Telegram
which contains this reference.
Each month for the next two years,
Lauren Robishaw must visit the corner of Martin Luther King Jr.
Boulevard and Lavaca Street. That's where she glanced down
momentarily in 1998, ran a red light and killed a 25-year-old
bicyclist. The visits are part of the sentence imposed Monday after
Robishaw, 23, pleaded guilty to a charge of reckless driving, reduced
from criminally negligent homicide, which could have sent her to
prison.

The mother of Ben Clough -- the bicyclist who was killed -- asked
prosecutors to make the visits a requirement of Robishaw's two-year
probation so the woman would take time to think about the man she
killed.

Clough was known as "the old man" to his friends because he always
paid his bills and people knew they could count on him for a place to
stay, his mother, Karen Clough, said in a videotape played at
Monday's sentencing in County Court-at-Law No. 6.

"He always had a gallon of milk in his refrigerator," she said. "Now
I can't ever speak to him again."

Karen Clough, who is from Massachusetts, said it would have been too
painful for her to attend the sentencing.

But in the videotape, she spoke to Robishaw about her son: "I can't
say I want you to suffer," the tearful mother said. "I know you
didn't mean to do it, but you did it anyway."

Robishaw quietly sobbed as she watched the tape.

In a separate statement read by Assistant District Attorney Buddy
Meyer, Clough's father, Paul Clough, said Robishaw had never
expressed any remorse to the parents.

Robishaw and her lawyers declined to comment Monday.

Robishaw will be required to check in with a probation officer before
her monthly visits, Meyer said, and the officer will drive by and
make sure she is there. "We didn't want her to just walk away from an
event in which a very special person was killed," Meyer said.

He said making visits to the site of a wreck a condition of probation
is not unusual in such cases.

In addition to probation, Robishaw, who now lives in Houston, also
must serve 80 hours of community service, receive counseling and
serve on a victims' impact panel. She also is forbidden from
drinking.

Robishaw admitted to police that she had a glass of wine before the
collision, but she passed a field sobriety test, Meyer said. No
blood-alcohol test was administered.

Meyer said prosecutors agreed to the reduced plea because they could
not prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Robishaw had acted
negligently. She had not been speeding and was not drunk, he
said.

The wreck occurred on Oct. 2, 1998, as Clough was riding his bicycle
home from his job at Dynamic Reprographics. He was riding north on
Lavaca Street when Robishaw, traveling west on Martin Luther King,
ran a red light and hit him, police said.

Paul Clough, who lives in Maine, said he wished police had ordered a
blood-alcohol test. It was humiliating, he said, that his son was
tested for alcohol but she wasn't. No alcohol or drugs were found in
Ben Clough's system.

Clough, who never got a driver's license, was happy living without a
car, his father said. He was taking desktop publishing courses at
Austin Community College and was a volunteer with the Yellow Bike
program, which provides bicycles for anyone to ride around town.

"Ben never complained; . . . he just enjoyed life," his father said.
"He never had a bad word to say about anybody, and I wish I could say
that myself."
The police report indicates that the
motorist "Had Been Drinking", but the police did not test her. The
police would not comment on this discrepancy when we called to ask
about it.
FAILURE
#7: This case continues the
pattern of cyclists being hit with serious penalties for minor
traffic offenses, while at-fault motorists who kill us face little to
no penalties.
The police turned the case over to the
District Attorney, the District Attorney sent the case to a grand
jury, and the grand jury indicted the driver on a charge of criminal
homicide.
FAILURE
#4:  The police failed to
mention in their press release that the driver had run the red light,
and failed to mention that the driver had been drinking, and refused
to comment on those aspects of the case for days following the
collision. They did, however, mention in their press release that Ben
hadn't been wearing a helmet.
Ben died almost instantly at the scene.
Witnesses seem to think that this is one of those cases in which a
helmet wouldn't have made a difference. Ben probably didn't have
lights on his bike though, and that might have made a
difference.
Ben Clough, age 25, was killed by Lauren
Robishaw when she ran a red light in her 1993 Acura Legend. She was
traveling westbound on MLK as Ben was traveling northbound on Lavaca
(probably trying to go into the alley). Several witnesses saw
Robishaw run the red light and the police indicate "Ran Red Light" on
the police report, although they didn't include that in their press
release. They DID mention in their press release that Ben wasn't
wearing a helmet, so the media dutifully reported that a helmetless
cyclist died in a collision, and made no mention of the red light
since the police didn't put it in their press release.
MYTH:
It was wrong for the motorist to not get a ticket when the collision
happened.
(Friday, 10-2-98, 8:47pm)
diagram
of collision (#1)
FAILURE
#3: Neither the police nor the
DA ever charged the driver with running the red light. (Though we
can't count how many cyclists have been JAILED for running red
lights.)
The
Charge. The original
charge was Criminally Negligent Homicide, a State Jail Felony, which
carries a jail sentence of 180 days to 2 years. In addition, there is
a possibility of a fine up to $10,000. The law is not black and
white. Here's the definition of "criminally negligent":
Controversy
about the judge. Cyclists
may remember Judge Wisser for letting the motorist who attacked Lance
Armstrong out on minimal bail. (Here's the
story about that.)
Sure, we can criticize the system,
but let's criticize them for what they ACTUALLY did wrong, not for
what they DIDN'T do wrong. To wit:
MYTH:
The DA is ignoring this case.
FAILURE
#6: The local press was
otherwise clueless. At the memorial ride for Ben, various reporters
were bouncing around me trying to get a look at my copy of the
Accident Report, which they hadn't bothered to procure for
themselves. Even when they got copies, they didn't read them
carefully -- the Statesman reporter didn't even notice the cops'
notation that the driver had been drinking until I pointed it out to
her.
Driver
must revisit bicyclist's killing,
Court orders woman to go monthly to intersection where she ran red
light
by
Claire Osborn
Austin
American Statesman,
05-01-2001, p. B1
Ben Clough, age 25, was
killed by Lauren Robishaw on 10-2-98 when she ran a red light in her
1993 Acura Legend. She was traveling westbound on MLK as Ben was
traveling northbound on Lavaca (probably trying to go into the
alley). Robishaw was originally charged with Criminally Negligent
Homicide, but the prosecutors agreed to reduce the charge to simply
Reckless Driving in return for a guilty plea. Robishaw pled guilty
and was sentenced to community service on 4-30-01.
(more
on sentencing)

FAILURE
#1: The police failed to get a
blood alcohol level from the driver, although they wrote on their
report that the driver had been drinking and that it was a possible
factor in the collision. [The
police chief tells us that the driver passed a field sobriety test,
so the officers could not take a blood alcohol reading because they
did not have probable cause to suspect that she was drunk beyond the
legal limit. The chief suggests that we lobby to have the law
changed, and in fact at least one cyclist lobbied the State
legislature to enact a law requiring the police to get a blood
alcohol reading whenever a motorist causes the death of another road
user. This might not be so easy, because there will be claims that
this violates the U.S. Constitution's fourth amendment against
unlawful search and seizure.]
From our illustrated guide to
How
to Avoid Getting Hit by Cars,
the collision type is most similar to #1, The Right Cross. Our guide
explains that this kind of collision is most common when the car is
coming out of a driveway, parking lot, or one-way street. (But in
Ben's case, the car was on a two-way street, had a red light, and was
on the right side of her street rather than the left.)

a:hover { background:orange; text-decoration: underline }
Note that the driver was never charged
with running the red light in the first place. While bicyclists in
Austin have gone to jail for running a red light, Robishaw got
off completely scot-free on that charge.
Here are facts & myths
surrounding the case:

FAILURE
#2: The police failed to arrest
the driver and make her bail out of jail. Getting arrested is part of
the price of doing something wrong, and getting bail from the
motorist makes it less likely that they'll skip town if they're
indicted. When cyclists get arrested for minor traffic infractions
and riding on the sidewalk, we kind of expect a motorist to get
arrested when they kill someone.
Ben
Clough