
Contents
Introduction
Jon P Mitchell (University of Sussex)
BERGHAHN BOOKS: 55 John Street, 3rd Floor, New York, NY 10038
                                      
Telephone: +1 (212) 2331075  Fax: +1 (212) 7915246
                                      
Email: Berghahn@aol.com
Conclusions: The Political Economy behind the Powers of Good and Evil
Paul Clough (University of Malta)
Chapter Three: The Devil, Satanism and the Evil Eye in Contemporary
Malta
Jon P Mitchell (University of  Sussex)
Chapter Five: Modernity, Crisis and the Rise of Charismatic Catholicism
in the Maltese Islands
Nadia Theuma (University of Malta)
Chapter Eight: The Iconography of Evil in Maltese Art
Isabelle Borg (University of Malta)
Autumn 2001  251 pages, bibliog., index
ISBN 1-57181-992-4 hardback;   1-57181 - 313 - 6  paperback
Anthropology/Religious Studies
Chapter Two: Witchcraft and New Forms of Wealth: Regional Variations
in South and West Cameroon
Peter Geschiere (University of Leiden)
Chapter Six: Good, Evil and Godhood: Mormon Morality in the Material
World
Hildi J Mitchell (University of  Belfast)
Chapter Four: ëYou Devil, go away from me!í Pentecostalist African Christianity
and the Powers of Good and Evil
Birgit Meyer (University of  Amsterdam)
3 Newtec Place, Magdalen Road, Oxford, OX4 1RE, UK
                                       
Telephone:+44 (o1865)250011  Fax: +44 (01865) 250056
                                       
Email: BerghahnUK@aol.com
Chapter Seven: The State and the Empire of Evil
Jojada Verrips (University of Amsterdam)
A
key theme in the anthropology of belief is the relationship between socio-economic
change and changes in belief systems. It has been widely argued that rapid
socio-economic change, particularly the introduction of capitalism, leads
to an increase in beliefs and representations of evil and the Devil. These
beliefs, it is argued, constitute forms of resistance to or rejection of
ëmodernityí. This volume builds on these arguments, to suggest that rather
than an indigenous resistance to capitalism, such representations signal
a profound moral ambivalence towards the socio-economic processes inherent
in capitalist economy. Using a range of examples, from Surinamese zombies
to American horror films, it demonstrates the extent to which evil imagery
is linked to a fear of excess, particularly in situations where people
find themselves, or perceive themselves, to be peripheral to the centres
of political, economic and cultural power.
Edited by Paul Clough and Jon P. Mitchell
2 photographs; 7 diagrams
Contents: J. P. Mitchell, Introduction - B. Thoden van Velzen/W. van
Wetering, Dangerous Creatures and the Enchantment of Modern Life - P. Geschiere,
Witchcraft and New Forms of Wealth: Regional Variations in South and West
Cameroon - J. P. Mitchell, The Devil, Satanism and the Evil Eye in Contemporary
Malta - B. Meyer, ëYou Devil, go away from me!í Pentecostalist African
Christianity and the Powers of Good and Evil - N. Theuma, Modernity, Crisis,
and the Rise of Charismatic Catholicism in the Maltese Islands - H. J.
Mitchell, Good, Evil and Godhood: Mormon Morality in the Material World
- J. Verrips, The State and the Empire of Evil - I. Borg, Religion and
its Refractions: Evils and the Devil in Maltese Popular Culture and Religious
Art - P. Clough, Conclusions: The Political Economy behind the Powers of
Good and Evil.
Chapter One: Dangerous Creatures and the Enchantment of Modern Life
Bonno Thoden van Velzen and Ineke van Wetering (University of Amsterdam)