
Molecular recognition is a key aspect of computer-aided drug design and is governed by the three-dimensional (3D) properties of the interacting molecules. For example, for a small molecule to bind to a target protein it should have complementary shape and physicochemical properties to the binding site. These properties are often represented by molecular fields mapped onto 3D grids, for example, electrostatic, steric and molecular interaction fields. However, the resolution of the fields is such that many data points are required which makes molecular comparisons computationally expensive. Furthermore, most methods for comparing field representations of molecules require that the molecules are aligned prior to calculating their similarity. The alignment step can also be very time consuming. Wavelet transforms have recently become a popular method of multi-resolution analysis for the representation of images. For example, the use of wavelets for compression of two dimensional images is well established. This project will focus on the development of multi-resolution methods for comparing 3D representations of molecules with a key requirement being the development of methods that are alignment independent.
The studentship is jointly funded by GlaxoSmithKline and the BBSRC and, owing to funding restrictions, is only open to citizens or permanent residents of the UK.
Open to UK students holding a good Undergraduate or Masters degree in Computer Science (strong candidates with degrees in other subject areas will be considered).
Arampatzis, M. van Kreveld., I. Reinbacher, C.B. Jones, S. Vaid, P.D. Clough, H. Joho, and M. Sanderson, Web-based delineation of imprecise regions, In the Journal of Computers, Environment and Urban Systems (CEUS), In Print (expected publication 2006).
The following EPSRC CASE Studentship is available for Doctoral study in the Department of Information Studies, University of Sheffield. The Studentship will collaborate with members of the Ordnance Survey, the UK Government´s mapping agency.
To investigate how best to federate search over a set of distributed search engines containing content written in natural languages other than that of the query. This area, which has received very little attention, builds on the two currently separate research areas of Cross Language Information Retrieval and Federated Search. The initial aim of the research is to determine if existing methods developed in the Federated Search community such as collection selection and result merging work effectively in the context of cross language search. Cross language query routing is a completely unexplored topic area. The cross language nature of search results adds a further dimension to be considered when merging the results from different databases or determining the most suitable databases to query.
This PhD studentship is available to students who meet the following eligibility criteria:
The project will start on 1 October 2006. The studentship includes a maintenance stipend of £15,800 per annum, a conference attendance allowance and a research training and support grant.  The project will be supervised by Dr. Paul Clough from the University of Sheffield and Mr. Glen Hart from the Ordnance Survey. The PhD also includes a 3-month industrial placement with the Ordnance Survey at their Southampton Headquarters.
Requirements
Project
The project will study computational methods for defining imprecise regions using knowledge extracted from the Web. Many people refer to regions in a vernacular form commonly referred to as imprecise regions. Such regions can include areas of a country (the American Midwest, the British Midlands, the Swiss Alps); parts of a city (New York's Upper East Side, London's square mile, the Latin Quarter of Paris). Commonly used descriptions of areas (the south east of England, southern California, a city's downtown district) can also be viewed as imprecise regions. There is an increasing need to represent such regions within the resources used by geographic information systems (e.g. local search or mapping); particularly as non-specialist users of such systems are more likely to use vernacular geography. The aim of this research is to study the use of vernacular geography and investigate how information mined from the Web can be used to generate an approximate spatial boundary for an imprecise region.
The ideal candidate will have a background in the physical sciences with good mathematics skills. Experience of computer programming will be advantageous.
Visit the BBSRC website for details on eligibility
For further information, contact Dr Val Gillet
Application Deadline: 30th June 2006
Purves, R., Clough, P. and Joho, H. (2005), Identifying imprecise regions for geographic information retrieval using the web, In Proceedings of GIS RESEARCH UK 13th Annual Conference, Glasgow, UK, 313-318.
Dr. Paul Clough, Dept. Information Studies, University of Sheffield, UKMr. Glen Hart, Principle Research Scientist and Research Manager, Ordnance Survey, UK
Contact Paul Clough to apply or ask for details.
Contact Mark Sanderson to apply or ask for details
Departmental PhD studentships currently available are listed below. Please scroll down the screen to view full details of each studentship.
Dr Mark Sanderson, Department of Information Studies, University of Sheffield and Dr Nick Kemp, Knowledge Research Team, Dstl.
Background literature
The closing date for initial applications is 1st July 2006.