
Dr. Malone, Associate Professor, was pleased to learn of the selection, "I'm
      looking forward to co-editing JELIS at this dynamic time in LIS education.
      LIS educators can learn a great deal from each other, and JELIS is the
      ideal vehicle for sharing our research and experience."
Coleman teaches courses in the knowledge organization track, such as
            organization of information, controlled vocabularies, and theory
            of classification.
        She also teaches scholarly communication and information seeking behaviors.
        Coleman has an M.L.I.S. from the University of Madras (India) and a Ph.D.
        in LIS from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Her research
        includes the knowledge organization, representation of objects such as
        scientific models; information use behaviors, and scholarly communication.
        She is PI of DLIST, the Digital Library of Information Science and Technology,
        a global scholarly communication initiative that is building an LIS eprints
      repository.
At Arizona, Malone teaches information resources evaluation, government
      information, information literacy instruction, and social constructs of
      information. She holds an M.L.S. from Arizona and a Ph.D. in LIS from the
      University of Texas. Her research focuses on U.S. public library history
      and the construction of gender and race in the information professions.
      Malone is a recipient of the American Library Association Library History
      Round Table's Justin Winsor Prize and a winner of the ALISE Methodology
      Paper Competition.
ALISE is pleased
        to announce that Drs. Cheryl Malone and Anita Coleman, University of
        Arizona School of Information Resources and Library Science, will co-edit
        the Journal of Education for Library and Information Science (JELIS).
        Malone and Coleman were selected by the Board of Directors in July based
        on recommendations from the search committee.
Dr. Coleman, Assistant Professor, was equally pleased about being named co-editor, “I look forward to invigorating, innovative, and productive interactions with the LIS community. Collectively we can harness the opportunities
 and chart a bright future for LIS.”