
How do you get to the point where users can be involved in the process of studying participant involvement.  Need to share the data about usage back with users.
What do we need to know from other groups about these issues?
SATURDAY MORNING
Review of cross-sections
We tend not to talk about the access issue and the race, class gender issues around access.  There are cultural issues are access as well, seeing the value and the literacy issues.  We underscore the fact that issues of inequity have not been addressed much.
What is the significance of it in this context?

Need to develop research around:
What do we know from research about what works?
There are very different kinds of interactive sites that could be characterized.  NSDL should do research on types of interaction and different types of site. Reward systems, different forms of involvement, audience and scale of audience, producer-consumer, scale of project, recognizing social aspects of interaction, comfort etc., different stakeholder group with different vocabularies.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, GROUP 1 RE-INTEGRATION
What do we know about what research methodologies?
We need to do the basic research before we can get to questions of how to better motivate people to user sites and resources.  Need to understand the range of activities before we can say things about how to impact people in terms of their needs and motivations.  It might be good to have mechanism that exploratory data (qualitative and quantitative) can be collected and kept in a central repository in order to begin to develop the understanding we need in NSDL.  This would require a collaborative model rather than a competitive model.
GROUP 1: Anita Coleman, Gabe Della-Piana, Mick Khoo, Flora McMartin?, Wes Shumar, Jan-Willem Strijbos
Are there methods that best match the different topic areas?  Generating content and metadata could give respondents opportunities to define metadata as a test of categories, technological services could do surveys.
What do we know about what has not worked?
What do we mean by participant involvement?
Possible Suggestion to NSF
Are we talking about action research, participants as subjects, researchers as subjects?  Different communities of end-users. Subject, age. Teaching task and learning task. We typically look at end users as users of the product and don’t have ways to feedback into what their needs are.  Who are the users and what do they do?  Communities of use and the users are very closely intertwined. Need to identify use, user communities.  Are you targeting a specific group or are you aiming services for a general group of people.  Want to attract people to science and technology who may not already have been.  I raise point about teachers who are more continuous community at the Math Forum.  So do people return and use regularly.  I raise the question of why do some people become leaders and participate and contribute regularly.  And what are the lurkers getting out of this process.  Are they getting things from the community, how does it fit within their lives.  Lurkers are maybe a problem in a small group because the small group needs more participation.  Where lurkers in a big group is a less of a problem.  We get into a whole discussion of the difference between lurkers and active participants and how to define them and what is the value of defining them.
Participant involvement depends on the goals of the project.  I mention the cilt project where we looked at three types of sites, interactive, hybrid and resource site.  As you move to the interaction end users have to more things.  We need data about usage and context.  Because it is hard to say if participant involvement is meeting people’s needs and “good” without know the context and the longitudinal data.  We come to realize that the typology question is an important one and a very difficult one.  In order to talk about participant involvement we need to think about all the different types of sites and the reasons people who come to those sites.  There have been projects (Judy Ridgeway and   Anita Coleman) have done metadata studies that characterized audience, learning resources types, and subject across the NSDL.