
Tracey
                  Bridges is the president of Omicron Alpha Kappa Chapter at The
                  University of North Carolina at Greensboro. She is a senior,
                  majoring in Human Development and Family Studies and plans to
                  attend graduate school to obtain a PhD in an HDFS-related
                  field. Tracey has particular interest in the developmental
                  transition from adolescence into adulthood. While at UNC-G,
                  she has worked as an Undergraduate Research Assistant on the
                  Children's Friendship Project being conducted by Dr. Anne
                  Fletcher and Dr. Andrea Hunter.
2001
                  - Student Board Members
Renee Santos,
                  Erika Barnhart, Cathy Schon with Karla Hughes, Board Chair
Tracey Bridges,
                  Deidra Cody, Anita Coleman

Anita
                  Coleman is the president of Kappa Alpha Chapter at Northwest
                  Missouri State University. She returned to college after 20
                  years in business, and is working toward a bachelor's degree
                  in Dietetics and Food Service Management and an MBA with a
                  health emphasis. During the academic year she will be working
                  in the Upward Bound Youth Program at the University. She is
                  excited about the opportunity to serve on the Kappa Omicron Nu
                  Board.


2003
                  - Student Board Members

Deidra
                  Cody is the past-president of Nu Alpha Chapter at Berea
                  College and a recent graduate. Her major was Child and Family
                  Studies with an emphasis in Dietetics. She is currently
                  attending Northern Illinois University as a graduate student
                  in Nutrition Science and beginning a dietetic internship,
                  emphasizing food service management. She spent her summer
                  teaching Financial Management Courses to low-income families
                  in Kane County, Illinois. She is excited to serve on the KON
                  Board. Her first experience at Conclave motivated her in many
                  new ways! She looks forward to seeing members in Dallas in
                  2007