
Carl-Martin Nagel, Director
Mr. Armstrong graduated with honors from the faculty of Petroleum Engineering at
S.A.I.T. in 1990, and received his Registered Professional Technologist (RPT)
designation from APEGGA in 2002. After obtaining his diploma, Mr. Armstrong
commenced full-time employment with Kerr-McGee Canada Ltd where he was responsible
for production operations. In 1996, Mr. Armstrong joined Star Oil & Gas Ltd and was
responsible for drilling, completion, and production engineering. Mr. Armstrong was
subsequently promoted to Manager, Operations where he remained until the sale of
Star to Arc Resources Ltd
Mr. Joynt graduated with honours from the faculty of Business Administration at Mount Royal College in 1987, and received his Certified Management Accountant (CMA) designation in 1989. He began his career in the oil and gas industry with Imperial Oil Ltd., where he held various positions while advancing through the companys Accountant Development Program. Mr. Joynt was subsequently promoted into management and remained with the company until 1993, when he joined Cimarron Petroleum Ltd., a public company trading on The Toronto Stock Exchange, as Senior Financial Accountant. Mr. Joynt remained with Cimarron Petroleum Ltd. until early 1997, when the company was purchased by Newport Petroleum Corporation, at which time he joined Maxwell Oil & Gas Ltd., a public company trading on a predecessor exchange to the TSX Venture, as Controller. From 1998 to 2002, Mr. Joynt was employed as Controller of Richland Petroleum Corporation, a public company trading on The Toronto Stock Exchange.
Mr. Chiarastella is a Mount Royal College Graduate and has 23 years of oil and gas experience.  As co-founder and President of Bolt Energy Ltd., he was responsible for the ongoing business of the Corporation, identification and evaluation of investment opportunities and supervision of activities.  Mr. Chiarastella also co-founded and held the position of President with Burner Exploration Ltd. which was founded in June of 1993 and was later listed on the Alberta Stock Exchange.  Prior thereto, he held positions as Manager of Land, Manager of Exploration and Vice-President of Remington Energy Ltd. from September 1988 to June 1993 and previous to that was Landman with several oil and gas companies: Chevron Standard Limited, October 1977 to August 1979; Petro-Canada Exploration Ltd. August 1979 to June 1980; Aquitaine/Canterra, June 1980 to September 1988.  Over his career, Mr. Chiarastella has been instrumental in negotiating, coordinating and creating what led to significant discoveries in the following areas:  Tracy Mountain (North Dakota), Sturgeon Lake, Alberta, Rainbow Lake, Zama, Caroline, Sikanni, Grand Forks, Pouce Coupe and Moose Mountain.
Mr. Nagel received a diploma in Business Economics from J.W. Gothe-University in Frankfurt, Germany in 1961. Since 1967, Mr. Nagel has been the President and a shareholder of C.M. Nagel GmbH, a real estate management and holding company. From 1971 to 1992, Mr. Nagel was President of Rohstoff-Verband Hessen e.V., a secondary raw material dealers' association in the federal state of Hessen, Germany. From 1980 to 1994, Mr. Nagel was also President of Bundesverband Der Deutschen Rohstoffwirtschaft e.V., a federal association of secondary raw material dealers. From 1982 to 1990, Mr. Nagel was president and shareholder of Metallhandels-gesellschaft offenbach/main GmbH, a national scrap iron business. From 1982 to 1991, Mr. Nagel was a director and shareholder of Pancontinental Oil Ltd. and from 1992 to 2000 was a director and shareholder of Newport Petroleum Corporation, both of Calgary, Alberta. Since 1983, Mr. Nagel has been a member of the jury for commercial law in Frankfurt and a director and shareholder of Sentra Resources Corporation, an oil and gas exploration company based in Calgary, Alberta.
Mr. Arthur received his B.Sc. in Geological Sciences in 1985 and his M.Sc. Geology in 1987 at the University of British Columbia.  He commenced employment with BP Canada (later Talisman Energy) in February 1988 and worked NE B.C. and northern and central Alberta.  During his last two years at Talisman he generated prospects on the Peace River Arch.  In 1994 he joined Tri Link Resources and spent 2 ½ years helping explore and develop their Mississippian Tilston trend of SE Saskatchewan and their interests on the Alberta side of the Peace River Arch.  Most of his exploration efforts since Tri Link have targeted Cretaceous, Triassic and Mississippian prospects on the Peace River Arch with Canrise Resources, Courage Energy and Bow Valley Energy.
Mr. Banister is currently President of BanCor Inc., an investment holding company and the successor to Travis Chemicals Inc. which was sold in January 1997.  Mr. Banister was President and C.E.O. of Travis Chemicals Inc.; a private corporation which he owned as the result of a leveraged management buy out in 1985.  During his eleven year ownership, the Company tripled in size serving markets in Canada and abroad.  Mr. Banister was United Ways 1994 annual campaign chairman for Calgary and area and was a recipient of a 1991 Pinnacle Award for business excellence and community involvement as well as Junior Achievements 1995 Business in the Community leadership award. He serves on two public companys boards; Kane Investment Corporation and Galvanic Applied Sciences Inc. Mr. Banister received a Business Administration diploma from the Northern Alberta Institute of Technology in 1966.
Mr. Duncan received his Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Alberta in 1984. After obtaining his degree, he spent 4 years in the seismic processing business before moving into the interpretive side of geophysics. Mr. Duncan has held the position of Senior Geophysicist at numerous junior oil companies where he has obtained experience in the Western Canadian sedimentary basin ranging from S.E. Saskatchewan to Alberta and N.E. British Columbia. Mr. Duncan most recently was at Bow Valley Energy and Courage Energy where he was a member of exploration groups which have had numerous new discoveries in the Peace River Arch area. The prospects that he has help generate have targeted the Dunvegan Sand, Baldonnel, Charlie Lake, Halfway, Doig and Kiskatinaw formations. Mr.  Duncan has been part of successful exploration groups which have lead to significant production growth at numerous junior oil companies such as Richland, Arrival Energy, Compton Petroleum, Courage Energy and Bow Valley Energy.
Mr. Johnson received a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Manitoba in 1966. He immediately commenced employment with Imperial Oil Limited, which continued until 1981 (including two years with Exxon Corporation in New York from 1977 to 1979). In 1981, Mr. Johnson joined Liberty Petroleum Ltd. as President and Chief Executive Officer. In 1982, he joined Roxy Petroleum Ltd. as Vice President, Production, remaining until 1987 when he joined Paragon Petroleum Ltd. as President. In 1989, Mr. Johnson joined ELAN Energy Inc. (then Lasmo Canada Inc.) as President and a Director. Following the sale of such company in 1997, he became president of Ziff Energy Group until 1999, then President of AltaQuest Energy Corporation and joined the Enerplus Group in 2000, becoming Senior Vice President of Funds Management. In February 2002, he left the Enerplus Group and remains as President of his private family company, KristErin Resources Ltd.
Mr. Pawliw received a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Saskatchewan in 1972. After obtaining his degree, Mr. Pawliw commenced full-time employment in 1972, with Amoco Petroleum Corp. in Edmonton, Fort McMurray and Calgary, as a production engineer and then joined Bow Valley Exploration Ltd. in 1974, in a similar capacity, advancing to Onshore Operations Manager. From 1978 to 1997, Mr. Pawliw was a co-founder, President and director of Cimarron Petroleum Ltd., an oil and gas exploration company which was listed on The Toronto Stock Exchange. In 1997, Newport Petroleum Ltd. acquired Cimarron Petroleum Ltd., where Mr. Pawliw remained as a director for one year thereafter.
Mr. Tobin received a Bachelor of Science degree in Geology from the University of Saskatchewan in 1985.  After obtaining his degree, Mr. Tobin commenced full-time employment with Tri-Link Resources Ltd.  While at Tri Link, Mr. Tobin advanced to Chief Geologist for Alberta.  In this role, Mr. Tobin was responsible for all gas producing properties.  Through a five-year process of drilling and acquisition, Tri Links gas production was increased from 200 MCF/D to over 32,000 MCF/D.  Reserves were increased from 8.5 BCF at the end of fiscal 1992, to over 110 BCF at the end of fiscal 1997.  Late in 1997, Mr. Tobin joined Bolt Energy Ltd. as Manager of Exploration and Development.  Over a period of five years the company was grown from less than 100 BOPD equivalent to over 800 BOPD.  Mr. Tobin was acting as Vice President of Exploration for Bolt Energy Ltd. at the time the company merged with Blue Mountain Energy Ltd.
Mr. Hirowatari received a B.Sc. in Geological Science from the University of British Columbia in 1978, after which he commenced employment with Canterra Energy as Senior Exploration geologist. Numerous key properties were acquired during this time, and discoveries were initiated at Dizzy Creek, Zama, Shekilie and Fire areas. From 1988-1993, Mr. Hirowatari worked as Senior Exploration geologist for Husky Oil Operations Ltd. where he generated and drilled prospects on the Peace River Arch area targeting the Charlie Lake, Halfway, Doig,  Kiskatinaw and Wabamun formations. Since that time, Mr. Hirowatari has held similar positions with Bow Valley, Wainoco, Neutrino and Courage Energy, establishing those companies on the Peace River Arch.
Mr. Foster received a Bachelor of Applied Science degree in Geological Engineering from the University of British Columbia in 1979. After obtaining his degree, Mr. Foster commenced full time employment with Home Oil Co. Ltd. in Calgary, as a Reservoir Engineer. In 1985, Mr. Foster joined CSR Inc., as a Senior Reservoir Engineer in the oil and gas division of this Australian conglomerate, in Adelaide Australia. In 1988, Mr. Foster returned to Calgary and joined Rigel Energy Corp. (formerly Total Petroleum Canada Ltd.), as a Senior Development Engineer. From 1988 to 1999, Mr. Foster held various positions of increasing responsibility at Rigel, culminating as Vice President Business Development, from 1997 to 1999. From 1999 to 2002, Mr. Foster was Vice President Engineering for Hadrian Energy Corp., a private oil and gas exploration company.