
“We haven’t got caught up in the overall negative mood. We’re aware of the problems facing small and medium-sized companies, but we all know how flexibly glaziers are able to respond. Their innovative power will help them carve out a niche in new market segments while generating positive momentum. glasstec 2002 is a good example”, explains Martin Nagel, president of glasstec 2002 and of the BIV.
Trade professionals from all over the globeAustralia, Belgium, Cyprus ... the list of trade visitors’ home countries reveals 76 entries from A to Z; over half of all guests were from outside Germany. The high percentage of international visitors thus grew even further. Exhibitors and visitors alike were of high calibre: all the top names were among the 1,150 participating companies, while 70 percent of visitors were executives with decision-making authority. glasstec’s visitors were primarily interested in glass processing and finishing (53 percent), glass manufacturing (40 percent), tools, replacement and wearing parts (29 percent).
The overall outlook was very positive for glasstec’s exhibitors once again this year, as underscored by the number of those planning to return. More than half definitely intended exhibiting in 2004, while a further 36 percent will most likely return.
Italy, which represented the largest group of foreign exhibitors, joined the chorus of positive voices. “The interest of international buyers was more lively and pays testimony to a slow but steady rise. The German trade fair was again an absolute must for the industry, drawing a multitude of professionals from around the world”, is how Renata Gaffo of GIMAV (Italian Glass-processing Machinery and Accessories Suppliers' Association), summed up glasstec.
Exhibitors pleased with success“We are very happy with our visitors in terms of quality and quantity. glasstec 2002 is the right place and time to showcase ‘One Pilkington‘. Customer feedback is very positive. It’s good to be here!”, said Stuart Chambers, group chief executive of Pilkington. This buoyant mood, despite the generally difficult economy, was also reflected by exhibitor surveys. Eighty-eight percent were pleased with their commercial success at the fair and 55 percent anticipated good post-fair business.
Unique: “glass technology live”The unusually high percentage of visitors from architectural and engineering offices, universities and colleges (over 10 percent) is due not least to the power of the special presentation “glass technology live” with symposium. Nearly 1,000 students from all over Europe came to Düsseldorf to see and discuss international architectural projects and designs of projects under construction. “The special presentation with symposium drew an incredible amount of interest, especially because this year we unveiled laminated glass tubes, a world innovation, and featured high-calibre speakers”, explains Professor Stefan Behling, director of the institute for building construction at the University of Stuttgart and partner in Sir Norman Foster’s London architectural office. Sixty percent of visitors to the special presentation underscored that the inclusion of “glass technology live” considerably enhanced the appeal of glasstec.
The next glasstec will be held in Düsseldorf in autumn 2004.
“Those who made early contacts to up-and-coming markets, such as the CIS countries and Asia, are reaping the benefits today”, comments Siegfried Glaser, chairman of the glasstec advisory council and of VDMA’s German glass machinery and plant division, on visitors’ countries of origin. “In the future, the companies’ main objectives will include forming a contact forum for German machine builders and international customers”, Glaser stressed further.
Katharina von Falck/Liza Quickglasstec 2002 Press OfficeTel. +49(0)211/4560 -541/-996Fax +49(0)211/4560 87-541/-996FalckKa@messe-duesseldorf.de/QuickL@messe-duesseldorf.de
glasstec portal draws large response“Discover the World of Glass” is the theme of the glasstec portal, which has been used by the fair’s visitors and other interested parties from around the world. Many seize the opportunity to gain extensive information on the event and its technological innovation. The cornerstone of the portal is the large exhibitor database, which currently includes over 800 companies complete with profile, product descriptions and news. Since the glasstec portal was launched five months ago, it has attracted over 850,000 users. During the run of the fair, some 42,000 people visited the portal daily. In the past, the fair was over after just a few days, even though suppliers and interested parties also have questions, announcements and things to show in between stagings. Thanks to the glasstec portal, the stands are now open 365 days a year, 24 hours a day and accessible from all over the world at www.glasstec-online.com.
glasstec’s partners take stockMesse Düsseldorf and its partners, VDMA’s German glass machinery and plant division and the Federal Association of German Glazing Guilds (BIV), were satisfied with the positive responses generated on the visitor and exhibitor side. In all, glasstec 2002 was a complete success. “For Messe Düsseldorf, glasstec is one of the top-branded products on the trade fair calendar. Quality and quantity are on the mark! It is the worldwide No. 1 in terms of exhibitor numbers, space booked and visitor calibre”, notes Horst Klosterkemper, managing director of Messe Düsseldorf.