
"Everyone seems to be buying rhinos," he tells me as 
              we huddle around a fire on a chilly night at one of Lapalala's rustic 
              bush camps. "There are more than 10,000 white rhinos in private 
              and government hands in this country now." The post-apartheid 
              government has slashed its nature-conservation budget so it can 
              pay for long-overlooked social needs. Yet to the surprise of pessimists, 
              the number of rhinos in the country is growing, not diminishing--"in 
              spite of the fact that it's now permissible to hunt white rhinos 
              here." Walker, a still-dashing 64-year-old who's bagged a lion 
              or two in his day, estimates that 45 to 50 white rhinos, typically 
              older bulls, are shot by trophy hunters each year (none at Lapalala). 
              Black rhinos remain off-limits. "Private enterprise now looks 
              at the game industry as something worthwhile to get into," 
              he says. "People are willing to pay more than $ 30,000 apiece 
              for white rhinos. They are mostly buying them not for hunting but 
              to breed them and sell the offspring at a profit, and for tourism. 
              It's amazing how this has developed."
What with all the game fences that South Africans are erecting, 
              livestock trucks have replaced migration as the usual mode of long-distance 
              transport for wildlife. Catching and moving rhinos and other large, 
              dangerous animals has become a precise, fast-moving, almost military-style 
              operation involving lots of people and heavy equipment. On a cool 
              winter morning in Kruger National Park recently, with patches of 
              mist still blanketing the veld, I watch from the back of a crowded 
              white pickup as a white rhino staggers into a clearing. A few minutes 
              ago, veterinarian Douw Grobler, chief of Kruger's game-capture team, 
              leaned out of a jet helicopter and fired an immobilizing dart into 
              the bull's rump. The chopper now hovers just above the trees, herding 
              the woozy animal toward the road before it drops.
Outside the auction barn, I chat with a middle-aged couple, John 
              and Val Thorp, who own a 6,000-acre ranch nearby. (For rural white 
              landowners, that's fairly modest. For blacks, it's unimaginable. 
              Though apartheid has formally ended, most blacks still live on communally 
              owned tribal lands or in rented shacks in crowded black townships.) 
              The Thorps already own seven white rhinos. "We just got chased 
              by three of them yesterday, a mother, a father, and baby," 
              Val tells me. "I shouldn't say 'chased.' They followed us, 
              like a dog would. They're very inquisitive."
The black rhinoceros standing at the edge of the clearing locks 
              eyes with me and stares malevolently. Or it seems to--rhinos have 
              poor eyesight. And they always look irritated, if not downright 
              angry. "He's not in a good mood," David Bradfield whispers 
              to me as we sit in an open Land Rover 50 yards away, watching the 
              rotund young bull as he stamps his feet and exhales loudly through 
              his nostrils. In the driver's seat, Riaan Pretorius starts up the 
              engine, just in case. Bradfield and Pretorius work at the Lapalala 
              Wilderness, a spectacular private wildlife reserve in South Africa 
              with nearly one-eighth the land area of Rhode Island. Lapalala has 
              dozens of wild rhinos, and the rangers know them all. This is Mapateng, 
              an ornery 2-year-old who already weighs close to a ton. With an 
              explosive snort, he bolts a few yards toward us in a mock charge, 
              then turns and swaggers back to his ponderous two-ton mother, Punyane, 
              who continues to browse.
"See his wide mouth?" Pretorius whispers to me. "That's 
              different from the black rhino's. And the heads of these animals 
              are much bigger." Both white and black rhinos, he says, are 
              actually gray. White is probably a mistranslation of the Afrikaans 
              weit, or wide, to describe the white rhino's low-hanging mouth, 
              adapted for grazing. The black rhinos we saw earlier had smaller, 
              higher heads and prehensile upper lips, which reminded me of a rudimentary 
              elephant's trunk as they grabbed twigs and foliage rather than grass.
In the new democratic South Africa, if conservation continues to 
              be a game for the white elite, the safety of rhino sanctuaries, 
              public and private, can never be ensured. "Our game reserves 
              remain fortified areas with highly trained guards carrying automatic 
              weapons," says Lawrence Anthony, a Natal conservationist. "The 
              reason is the demand for land by impoverished rural communities 
              next to them." Many public reserves sit on traditional lands, 
              he says. The apartheid government would proclaim a park and expel 
              the inhabitants. Today many communities want to get their land back. 
              "They've got good memories," Anthony says. "They 
              know exactly where the traditional boundaries are." A return 
              to subsistence farming and cattle grazing inside the parks would, 
              of course, be an ecological disaster. Instead, Anthony has been 
              working in partnership with several tribal communities on the edge 
              of the Hluhluwe and Umfolozi parks to establish an adjoining Royal 
              Zulu Game Reserve. Anthony hopes the reserve, which would rival 
              Lapalala in size, will once again be home to hundreds of white and 
              black rhinos.

Even the booming market for rhinos, however, doesn't guarantee 
              their future in South Africa. One of the game industry's weaknesses 
              is that it's a white man's business. "For local black communities, 
              game conservation so far hasn't given many tangible benefits other 
              than jobs," says Khulani Mkhize, the KZN-NCS's new acting CEO. 
              Owning a piece of a new tourist camp or restaurant could pay off 
              in the long run, he says, "but where do they get the money 
              to buy equity in these businesses?"
"That's the way it should be," says Simon, though the 
              old-time cattle ranchers don't yet agree, he adds. Leopards will 
              keep the warthogs and impalas in check without troubling the larger 
              game. These people may live in ranch houses, I realize, but suburbanites 
              they're not. The Thorps are planning to build a new house inside 
              their game fence so they can watch the rhinos from their picture 
              window.
Like the giant panda, the rhinoceros is now a worldwide symbol 
              of endangered megafauna. Asia's three species of rhino--the Javan, 
              Sumatran and Indian--cling to survival in a few protected refuges. 
              Africa's two species--the black, or hook-lipped, rhinoceros (Diceros 
              bicornis) and the white, or square-lipped, rhino (Ceratotherium 
              simum)--have been killed off in one impoverished, land-hungry country 
              after another. But here the story has a twist. In South Africa, 
              rhinoceroses are flourishing. The country has two of the three significant 
              populations of endangered black rhinos left in Africa and close 
              to 90 percent of all the southern white rhinos remaining on the 
              continent. The numbers of both are climbing year by year.
Black rhinos are unpredictable beasts. When they charge, they often 
              keep coming--and they're capable of covering 45 feet in one second. 
              "I was watching a group of rhinos a few weeks ago," Pretorius 
              says quietly as we study the animals, "when the wind changed." 
              A large male put his head down and came straight for him. Pretorius 
              quickly climbed the nearest tree. "I stayed up there and had 
              a smoke," he says. (Treed humans can't always relax. A black 
              rhino at the Hluhluwe reserve in KwaZulu-Natal Province used to 
              reach into a tree's branches and try to hook people out with her 
              front horn. The rangers there called her Poking Polly.)
"But is African wildlife natural?" Bradfield replies. 
              "It's not anymore. We've got fences all over Africa, especially 
              in South Africa." This very reserve, all 140 square miles of 
              it, is fenced. In effect, the rhinos and other big game are all 
              here by invitation. (Elephants, lions and spotted hyenas have not 
              been invited.) Even Kruger National Park, Bradfield points out, 
              a wildlife sanctuary the size of Israel, has an electrified fence 
              around its entire perimeter. "These are not natural systems, 
              so we have to control the animal populations inside them."
Or perhaps not, according to Louise Dainty, a confessed rhino lover 
              who's here with her sister. She disputes the idea that this animal 
              is essentially two tons of anger. "Yesterday I scratched his 
              head," she says delightedly. She demonstrates how she'd cooed 
              to him in a quiet voice. "And he went, 'Hmm? Hmm?' as though 
              he were speaking to me. He came right up, and I scratched his little 
              head!" Indeed, one of the oddities of black rhino behavior, 
              experts say, is that their fierceness in the wild can be offset 
              by a calmness in captivity. Even Poking Polly was a pussycat when 
              confined.
People move up and down the rows of pens, scribbling on their auction 
              lists like bettors marking up racing forms. One of them is Mike 
              Englezakis, who owns the Thabana Safari Lodge near the Botswana 
              border. The lodge hosts ecotourists part of the year, hunters at 
              other times. Well-dressed and blunt-talking, Englezakis makes no 
              apologies for his belief that South African wildlife, including 
              white rhinos, is a consumable good. "The world has millions 
              of cattle, pigs and chickens," he says, "for only one 
              reason: because we raise them in order to eat them." Trying 
              to protect Africa's wildlife by sequestering it on public land won't 
              work, he says. "Human needs will always come first, for better 
              or worse. The minute there is no more grazing for my cow, the wildebeest 
              must die, because it doesn't belong to anyone. The cow is mine, 
              it's worth money, so I've got to protect it." By putting a 
              price tag on a rhino, a zebra, or a kudu, he says, so that people 
              can own it and make money from it--dead or alive--the species is 
              suddenly worth cultivating. "For wildlife to survive," 
              he concludes almost fiercely, "it has to become a cow."
"In 1962 we had one breeding population of white rhinos in 
              the whole of South Africa," says George Hughes, head of the 
              KwaZulu-Natal Nature Conservation Service (KZN-NCS), whose breeding 
              stock has fueled the white rhinos' comeback. "Today we have 
              well over 250 breeding populations." Many of those, he says, 
              are in private hands.
The wild patch of riverine bush veld where the white rhinos had 
              hidden in the 1890s is today part of the Hluhluwe-Umfolozi Park 
              game reserves, now teeming with rhinos and other big game. The KwaZulu-Natal 
              Nature Conservation Service (nee Natal Parks Board) has been selling 
              the excess to the highest bidder since 1988. The annual KwaZulu-Natal 
              Game Auction is the Kentucky Derby of wildlife sales, attracting 
              high rollers and setting game-price records.
Says Anthony, "If we involve these people in building their 
              own game reserves and they start benefiting, we'll protect the rhinos. 
              I don't see another way to do it."
Indeed, game fences are ubiquitous in South Africa. Outside the 
              dusty hamlet of Vaalwater, I stop at the Nyathi Ranch, one of many 
              private game ranches in the region. The owner, a tough-talking Afrikaner 
              named Martin Nagel, is about to hold a game auction in a barn out 
              back. "Every year, game prices in South Africa break the previous 
              year's record," he says, as we go out to watch an oversize 
              tractor trailer unload a shipment of live giraffes, wildebeests 
              and waterbuck. "The prices keep climbing." From a catwalk 
              above two rows of roofed pens, I look down on an ark's worth of 
              African wildlife, from antelope to zebra. All of it is for sale, 
              from the nyala bulls with green ear tags and protective plastic 
              tubing on their horns, to the pairs of giraffes circling restlessly 
              in narrow pens like slow-moving two-bladed propellers. Nagel isn't 
              selling rhinos today, he says apologetically, but he will next year. 
              Lions too.
Amazingly, Kruger Park used to have no rhinos at all. In 1892, 
              in fact, white rhinos were presumed to have disappeared from the 
              planet altogether, victims not of poaching but of European hunters 
              and land clearing. A few years later, a pocket of survivors was 
              discovered in a valley between the Black and White Umfolozi rivers. 
              The thousands of white rhinos in Africa today, including every one 
              of Kruger's, trace their lineage to that remnant population. (Black 
              rhinos, by contrast, were abundant into the 1960s. Then rampant 
              poaching nearly exterminated them. From 100,000 in 1960, their numbers 
              in Africa plummeted to barely 2,500 by 1992. Today, though still 
              vulnerable, black rhinos have rebounded somewhat to just under 3,000.)
Privacy Policy
"That's probably why the leopard's moved in," John says.
Now the foursome seem to get wind of us, literally. They stop grazing 
              and stare suspiciously in our direction, their ears swiveling like 
              radar dishes sweeping the horizon. A rhino's sense of smell, like 
              its hearing, is acute--its nasal passages occupy more space than 
              its brain does. With surprising agility for so hefty a beast, Poacher 
              begins to pivot in place, his massive head helping counterbalance 
              his hindquarters. As a full-grown rhino, he may lack natural predators, 
              but he's skittish all the same. Abruptly, the animals move off at 
              a trot. They somehow carry their bodies lightly as they move, their 
              tails held high.
Early the next morning, I tag along on a foot patrol with Bradfield 
              and Pretorius. Ahead of us on a high grassy plateau studded with 
              flat-topped acacias and velvet bush willows, game trackers Andries 
              Mokwena and Martiens Mpaga are following a set of fresh white rhino 
              tracks. The white rhino is reputed to be less dangerous than the 
              smaller black rhino, but only relatively. In the distance, herds 
              of blue wildebeests and impalas graze. A lone kudu bull with gorgeously 
              striped flanks and curlicuing horns watches us before bounding into 
              the trees. As we hike, all I can make out of the rhino's trail are 
              the impressive, still-warm dung piles that punctuate it.
Nokwethemba Biyela, a leader of the Biyela tribe, is a driving 
              force behind the new reserve. She has brought local people (most 
              of whom had never seen a live rhino) to visit the Umfolozi reserve. 
              "Ten years ago, if a black person visited a game park in South 
              Africa," she says, "it was like he was trespassing." 
              Small wonder many blacks have mistrusted wildlife authorities more 
              than poachers.
I glimpse scars on Poacher's back--wounds from a poacher's spear 
              in Natal some years ago, says Bradfield. With better security in 
              the past decade, he says as we head back to the Land Rover, poaching 
              is not as dire a threat to South Africa's rhinos as it once was. 
              A more likely killer of rhinos here is probably other rhinos. "If 
              you have too many bulls, they're going to start killing each other," 
              he says. A shy and serious-minded 29-year-old, Bradfield, like Pretorius, 
              wears shorts and hiking boots in even near-freezing weather. As 
              wildlife manager here, he has the responsibility of knowing where 
              all the rhinos are and, if necessary, interceding if there's trouble--calling 
              in a vet perhaps, or moving a troublemaker elsewhere. Doesn't a 
              good wildlife manager, I ask, let nature take its course? Isn't 
              Africa supposed to be wild?
Then, almost casually, without a word, Mokwena and Mpaga crouch 
              down in the tall grass. A short distance upwind, four white rhinos--a 
              bull, a cow, and her calves--are placidly munching grass in a clearing. 
              These are the largest land mammals on earth, aside from elephants 
              and hippos, but their low-hanging bellies and scrawny tails remind 
              me at first of a much smaller pachyderm, the pig. "That's Poacher," 
              Bradfield whispers, pointing to the largest of the four. "He's 
              one of our older bulls." With his blimplike girth and lethal-looking 
              front horn, Poacher is an impressive specimen. On the black market, 
              that horn alone could fetch $ 10,000, though it's nothing more than 
              a tight bundle of fibers, similar in composition to a fingernail. 
              (Claims for the rejuvenating powers of ground rhino horn are thus 
              about as valid as believing that chewing your nails will make you 
              live longer.)
The day before the auction, prospective bidders window-shop the 
              zoolike rhino bomas on a hilltop at Umfolozi. In the wooden-pole 
              pens are more than 40 rhinos, white and black; hoof stock is cloistered 
              at a separate locale. The rhinos here may be captive, but they're 
              certainly not tame. The first black rhino I approach is exuding 
              bad intentions. He immediately makes a mock charge, then backs up 
              and charges me again. Not satisfied with that, he trots off into 
              the main enclosure in back, spins in place, then hurtles straight 
              at me from 30 feet, skidding to a stop with a loud burst of spray 
              from both quivering nostrils, his horn jutting between the boma 
              poles. This animal obviously wants not only to break out of this 
              joint but to puncture me and anything else on two legs once he's 
              out.
The next day's auction once again set a record, earning the parks 
              agency more than 15 million rand or about two million much-needed 
              dollars. The six black rhinos, destined to be stars at a new tourist 
              safari park in the Eastern Cape, account for more than $ 300,000 
              of that.
The Lapalala Wilderness, occupying a huge swath of rugged bush 
              veld in South Africa's remote Northern Province, is one of the most 
              significant private sanctuaries for rhinos in the world. Dozens 
              of white and black rhinos roam the enormous refuge, along with giraffes, 
              zebra, hippos, Cape buffalo and antelope. The preserve was created 
              in 1981 by a South African writer, Clive Walker, as a nonprofit 
              tourism and education center with backing from a Cape Town businessman, 
              Dale Parker. Walker is delighted so many private landowners have 
              followed his lead.
Kruger is home to between 3,000 and 4,000 white and perhaps 500 
              black rhinos. Surplus animals are regularly trucked to uncrowded 
              corners of the immense park or to other parks and private buyers. 
              The darted bull I'm watching is one of four due to be rounded up 
              this morning. Like a punch-drunk prizefighter, it's now swaying 
              on its feet, shuffling and snorting. People and trucks begin moving 
              in from all sides. With the bull still on its feet, Grobler, a gruff, 
              stoop-shouldered man with an obvious air of authority, strolls up, 
              retrieves his dart and pulls a large blindfold over its eyes. Then, 
              with both hands, Grobler shoves the dazed creature over onto its 
              big, rounded side.
Their neighbors Simon and Danielle Rood join us. "The warthog's 
              pregnant again," Danielle announces. "We've never seen 
              so many pigs," adds Simon.

The team goes to work--taking blood samples, setting ropes, readying 
              a crate. As a long line of rangers prepares to heave on a line tied 
              to the rhino's handy front horn, Grobler grabs a syringe with a 
              fast-acting antidote. Drugging a rhinoceros is a tricky business. 
              You want it groggy enough not to kill you, yet lively enough to 
              do its own walking; even 20 rangers couldn't lift a full-grown rhino. 
              Grobler jabs the bull behind the ear, and within a minute or two 
              it starts to come around, hissing and panting under its blindfold. 
              The boss of the rope-hauling chorus line calls out, "Right, 
              if the rope goes, it's everyone for himself! Pick your vehicle." 
              I edge toward the white pickup, but the ropes hold, and within 20 
              minutes the bull is packed inside the steel crate, the crate winched 
              onto a large flatbed truck, and the truck roaring down an asphalt 
              road to the park's rhino boma, or holding pens. In a month or two, 
              it will be snorting and wallowing behind someone else's game fence.
People and rhinoceroses prefer similar habitat but don't mix very 
              well, which is one reason rhinos have almost vanished from the earth. 
              Outside Africa, rhinos have long had a potent, even mythical, reputation 
              thanks to their imposing bulk and almost prehistoric appearance. 
              A rhinoceros was paraded through Rome in 29 b.c. to celebrate Augustus' 
              victory over Cleopatra's Egypt. Marco Polo thought they were unicorns. 
              But newcomers moving into rhino country were often less admiring. 
              Observing a large bull shot by his expedition in South Africa's 
              Cape in 1801, William Somerville deemed it "beyond comparison 
              the most awkward and ugly of quadrupeds." Since the 19th century, 
              people have shot them for protection, for sport, for their horns--used 
              in Asia for folk remedies and in Yemen for dagger handles. Before 
              the close of the 20th century, the death toll was staggering.
In South Africa these hefty, unpredictable and inquisitive beasts 
              are flourishing and have become very big business.
A key reason is game privatization. South Africans now buy, sell, 
              breed and ship wild animals--white rhinos especially--as if they 
              were racehorses or Pomeranians. Rural landowners are selling off 
              their cattle, bringing in expensive game, and charging admission. 
              The country's thousands of private reserves now account for three 
              times as much conservation land as its expansive national parks. 
              Some conservationists in the West tut-tut about the seeming crassness 
              of it all, but South Africans just point to their game counts.