
``If I run harder,'' he said, ``it's easier to push through the
pain barrier than when I'm running at one slower pace for a long time.''
Only Sue Olsen has more. Olsen is a world-class ultramarathon
runner from Burnsville who became infamous for running Grandma's Marathon
five years ago in Duluth, Minn., when she was 8 1/2 months pregnant. She
came back a week later to run 100 kilometers at FANS when it was staged
at Lake Harriet, one day before giving birth to a healthy son she and her
husband named John Miles. John was serenaded with a zealous rendition of
``Happy Birthday'' at this year's FANS awards brunch.
``I love what I do,'' she said, ``and it's for a good cause.''
These people are real: encouraging and humble and spirited and
friendlier than Bill Rodgers at a race expo.
Three members of Alcoholic Anonymous approached Ed at different
times in 1999 and asked him to draw up programs to help them run their
first marathons. He did, and last October he encountered each of them near
the starting line of the Twin Cities Marathon.
Ripka, 43, the FANS record holder who's as intense during a race
as a sprinter in the blocks, explained it this way: ``I just give it all
I've got.''
Spectators and friends look at Danny Ripka and Sue Olsen with
awe.
But at FANS, you don't have to be a front-runner. Those of us 40 or 50
miles behind the leaders near the end of 24 hours receive the same looks
of admiration and wonder.
``There's a camaraderie,'' I told Kirsten. ``Also, it's a huge
challenge.''
``People who do this kind of thing are `real,' '' I told her.
But it's not just the charity or a love of running that draws
us to Nokomis on the often steamy first weekend of summer.
Rousseau said has great pride in his personal accomplishments
but added: ``It's the special people moments that provide me that inner
feeling of reward.''
Honesty and respect accompany the ceaseless miles, the sameness
of the terrain and the sharing of a sunset and a sunrise with like-minded
individuals. There's no fakery. Age and gender become irrelevant. A bond
forms as miles and laps pile up, one step at a time.
When was the last time someone asked you that around the house
or workplace?
Doing FANS was surely one of life's peak experiences.
Olsen, on the other hand, soft-pedals her goals and distributes
smiles to everyone. But if someone pulls close to her in mileage, a fire
lights in her eyes, and pain and fatigue become secondary in importance.
The Minnesota Sports Massage Therapy Team volunteers its services
for the FANS race, setting up tables and staffing them in rotating shifts
in the shade of two gigantic elm trees a few feet from the serpentine shoreline
of Lake Nokomis. Along with a contingent of friendly Army reservists and
dozens of selfless folks who donate their efforts to keep the runners going,
the workers at the massage tables pampered us almost until we were embarrassed.
The most common question we heard out there: ``Is there anything you need?''
It's a special moment in a day of special moments. Does that answer
your question, Kirsten?
As I read somewhere, life begins at the edge of your comfort zone.
I had no immediate, concise response for Kirsten. I asked her
why she hauls her table over to Lake Nokomis on a sunny Saturday afternoon
and spends four hours massaging sweaty strangers for free.
But as any marathon runner or Ironman triathlete or American Birkebeiner
skier knows, the uninitiated just don't get it.
At FANS this year, in the middle of the night, Ed was running
hard for two or three minutes, then walking for 30 to 45 seconds. I asked
him to explain his unique five-hours-to-go strategy.
A recovering alcoholic who lives within a short jog of Lake Nokomis,
Ed would be a good person to see if you're looking for inspiration.
Olsen, 42, runs away with the women's division of FANS nearly
every year and won the overall title in 1997. This year Elizabeth Fischer-Drew,
41, of Minnetonka, was breathing down Sue's neck, totaling a personal-best
107.63 miles. Olsen went 113.91.
A young massage therapist named Kirsten was working on my tight
quadriceps muscles about nine hours into the race and couldn't stop herself
from asking the obvious: ``Why?''
Later, as I was running with a good friend who traveled a long
way simply to help keep me motoring and motivated for several hours, the
conversation turned philosophical.
Because of the anonymity of AA, he doesn't know their last names
and couldn't check the results to see if they finished.
Whatever works. For me, revival came after two extended breaks
and a 20-minute nap. Rousseau had miles to go before he slept. He racked
up 106.13 this year, giving him an astonishing 1,135.31 miles in 11 years
of FANS.
``Well, like me, they switched their addiction to running, and
there they were,'' he said.
Many take their fund-raising seriously. Les Martisko posted a
sign by his tent where his wife, Cindy, changed the  lap number and
amount of cash raised after every circuit of the 2.4-mile course around
Nokomis. Martisko, who lives in Burnsville, piled up 87.96 miles and collected
$1,789.39 in pledges. Several raised much more.
``I strongly suspect they did,'' he said. ``Some day, in some
meeting, I'll bump into them and have a happy reflection on their first
marathon.''
Real? How about ageless Burt Carlson, who at 74 ran his 10th FANS
and knocked off 63 miles without losing his smile? Or Danny Ripka, who
just three weeks after reaching 216 miles in a 48-hour track race in France,
accumulated 119.77 miles at FANS to finish second overall?
Well, there you have at least a tiny part of the equation. We
love what we do, and the Family Advocate Network System is a worthy cause.
It raises money to help keep inner-city kids away from drugs and pregnancies,
and to send them to college. Runners and walkers at this year's race boosted
the FANS treasury by more than $47,000.
You want real? How about Dan and Nancy Berdan, or Jay and Jamie
Honeycutt, or Bob Metzger and Chris Markham, married couples who celebrate
their union by training together and then running around a lake for 24
hours? Or Jon Drew, Pat Ripka, Gene Curnow and Carol Zazubek, who celebrate
their marriages by nursing and prodding their spouses for 24 hours while
the applause went to the spouses? Or Gordon Chase, Bob Skomars, Tom Wade
and Tim Whisler, who sacrificed a day of their lives just to help friends
and acquaintances keep going?
For example, I was playing leapfrog with Ed Rousseau for a while
at about 3 o'clock in the morning. Ed, who at 60 can outrun athletes half
his age at any distance from 10 kilometers to 100 miles, is a legend at
FANS. Ten times in the 11 years of this race he has earned the coveted
sweat shirt that proclaims he has run ``100 miles in a day.''
All three had expressed doubts that they could complete the 26.2
miles of a marathon, Rousseau recalled.
Ripka and Olsen, who won the women's division of that race in
France with 206 miles, typify the definition of motivation. Both were so
spent after the race Sunday morning they hobbled and wobbled into a restaurant
for the awards brunch.