
In honor of Dr. Fred Knapp, a donation was made by Perry 
Adkisson.
In honor of Dr. Fred Knapp, a donation was made by Dr. 
Perry Adkisson.
In memory of Wilfred Craig, who 
"truly 'lived' for Entomology and was worried the youth were not interested in 
pursuing the field", a donation was made by Mrs. Avalon Craig.
Louise Fall
Frank Hovore
Dr. William J. Bell

In memory of Major PhD. Professor Dr. William J. Bell, a donation was made by 
Coby Schal.
Dr. Larry Larson
Dr. D. Elmo Hardy
In tribute to Dr. Larson's tireless and lasting 
contributions to the science and practice of entomology the following friends 
and colleagues have donated in his honor and memory. To give a donation, please 
go to: Gift.

Kenneth & Patricia Burow
E.
Alan Cameron
The Governing Board and staff of the
Entomological Society of America
Phillip & June Ellen Feil
Mary Ann Ferrin
Mike & Cindy Fuhrman
Rich & Becky Gregory
Fikru Haile
Ray & Gachia Hoefer
Scott Hutchins
William & Margo Hutchison
Laura Karr 
Dennis & Kathie Lane
Daniel & Susan Mahr
Sharlene Matten & Earl Mitchell
Z.B. Mayo
J. E. McPherson
Don & Mary Jane Newby
Doris Paroonagian,  in memory of Larry Larson, a beloved friend 
and colleague for 28 years
Edward & Betty Radcliffe

Paul Thomas

Ellen Thoms
James & Barbara Turner
Brian Waldman
William Wymer
John Young, in honor of Larry Larson, a respected and 
distinguished co-worker and reliable friend
Dr. William G. Eden
In memory of Dr. William G. (Bill) Eden, a donation was made by Jane and 
James Buttram.
Dr. Larry Larson
2003

In honor of Dr. Manya Stoetzel, former ESA President, a 
donation was made by Michael Kosztarab.
In honor of Dr. Fred Knapp, a donation was made by Ms. 
Susan Joy.
In memory of Dr. D. Elmo Hardy, 
a donation was made by Mrs. Ilse Hardy.
Dr. Fred Knapp
Dr. 
Larson served with Dow AgroSciences in a number of roles within Discovery and Field Research and 
  Development for over 28 years. He was highly recognized, both inside and 
  outside of the company, for his passion for science and for his outreach to 
  the scientific and local communities including his commitment to young people. 
  His contributions included serving as President of the Entomological Society 
  of America, Board of Directors and Counselor for the Entomological Foundation, 
  and helping Dow AgroSciences introduce new methods for pest management that 
  won Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge Awards, given by the Environmental 
  Protection Agency.
In honor of and in tribute to Dr. Fred Knapp, a donation 
was made by Dr. Ricardo Bessin.
Dr. Fred Knapp

In honor of the Entomological Society of America's past 
president, Dr. Edward Glass, a donation was made by Dr. Edward H. Smith.
In memory of Dr. Larry Larson, a donation was made by Paul 
Borth.
Memorials and Tributes 
2004
Dr. Wilfred Craig
Butterfly Cash Members

In Honor of Butterfly Cash Members, a donation was made by The Members of 
ButterflyCash.com
2002
Dr. Manya B. Stoetzel
Mr. Charlie Fisher

Our donation to the Foundation's youth educational programs, is given in the 
name
of Charlie Fisher. An avid outdoorsman, he loved not only animals but insects as 
well.
He was always bringing something home. At the age of 16, Charlie left us but his 
memory lives on. With this donation his memory in the things he loved will live 
on through
someone else. ...... Ms. Katrina Scott, Salt City Property Services

Dr. Harry H. Shorey

In memory of Dr. Harry Shorey a donation was made by Dr. Thomas Payne for Dr. 
Shorey's contributions to student education and research.
Donations made in memory of Jill DeWeese will go toward the 
Richard Fall Memorial Scholarship Fund.
In honor of this years Foundation Benefit Dinner Honoree, 
Dr. Fred Knapp, a donation was made by Dr. Manya Stoetzel. Dr. Knapp is 
currently the chair of the Entomological Foundation's  Board of Counselors 
and the former President of the Entomological Society of America in 1993.
Jill DeWeese
Dr. Edward H. Glass
Back to Becoming a Funding Partner
                                       
Back to 2003 Donor page
                                       
Back to 2004 Donor page