
For many years it has been well established scientifically that
all known forms of life, including human beings, have developed by a
lengthy process of evolution. It is also verifiable today that very
primitive forms of life, ancestral to all living forms, came into
being thousands of millions of years ago. They constituted the trunk
of a "tree of life" that, in growing, branched more and more; that
is, some of the later descendants of these earliest living things, in
growing more complex, became ever more diverse and increasingly
different from one another. Humans and the other highly organized
types of today constitute the present twig-end of that tree. The
human twig and that of the apes sprang from the same apelike
progenitor branch.
Creationism is not scientific; it is a purely religious view held
by some religious sects and persons and strongly opposed by other
religious sects and persons. Evolution is the only presently known
strictly scientific and nonreligious explanation for the existence
and diversity of living organisms. It is therefore the only view
which should be expounded in public school courses on science, which
are distinct from those on religion.
(The following statement first appeared in the
Humanist of January/February, 1977.)
In recent years, the evidence for the principle of evolution has
continued to accumulate. This has resulted in a firm understanding of
biological evolution, including the further confirmation of the
principle of natural selection and adaptation that Darwin and Wallace
over a century ago showed to be an essential part of the process of
biological evolution.
(Full list of 180 in addition to the above)
(Affiliations, as of 1977, given for identification only)

Sponsoring Committee

We, the undersigned, call upon all local school boards,
manufacturers of textbooks and teaching materials, elementary and
secondary teachers of biological science, concerned citizens, and
educational agencies to do the following:
There are no alternative theories to the principle of evolution,
with its "tree of life" pattern, that any competent biologist of
today takes seriously. Moreover, the principle is so important for an
understanding of the world we live in and of ourselves that the
public in general, including students taking biology in school,
should be made aware of it, and of the fact that it is firmly
established in the view of the modern scientific community.
Signers
George O. Abell, professor of astronomy, UCLA, Garland Allen,
Dept. of Biology, Wash. U., St. Louis; Dean Amadon, Amer. Mus. of
Nat. Hist., New York; Joseph Annest, Dept. of Genetics, Univ. of
Hawaii, Philip Appleman, prof. of English, Indiana Univ.; Khoren
Arisian, chmn., Nat'l Council of Leaders, AEU; Robert Bader, dean,
Coll. of Arts and Sciences, Univ. of Missouri; William K. Baker,
prof. of biology, Univ. of Chicago; Robert Ballentine, assoc. prof.
of biology, Johns Hopkins U.; R. H. Barth, Jr., prof. of zoology,
Univ. of Texas at Austin; Harold Bass, pastor, Hillside Comm. Church,
Tacoma; Norman J. Bauer, prof. of educ. studies, SUNY at Geneseo,
Maurice Bessman, prof. of biology, Johns Hopkins U., John L. Biesele,
prof. of zoology, Univ. of Texas, Austin; Algernon Black, Leader
emeritus, New York Society for Ethical Culture; Craig Black,
director, Carnegie Mus. of Nat. Hist., Pittsburgh; Antonie Blackler,
biological sciences, Cornell Univ.; W. Frank Blair, prof. of zoology,
Univ. of Texas, Austin; Brand Blanshard, Yale University; John Tyler
Bonner, prof. of biology, Princeton ' W. R. Breneman, prof. of
zoology, Indiana Univ.; R. Alexander Brink, prof. emeritus of
genetics, U. of Wis. ' Roy J. Britten, senior research assoc. in
biophysics, CIT, Pasadena; Guy L. Bush, Dept. of Zoology, Univ. of
Texas, Austin; William Callahan, project director, BSCS, U. of Colo.;
Philip Carl, asst. prof. of microbiology, Univ, of Illinois; Elof
Carlson, prof. of biological sciences, SUNY at Stony Brook; Lars H.
Carpelan, prof. of biology, Univ. of California, Riverside; Hampton
Carson, professor of genetics, U. of Hawaii; James Carver, Jr.,
Biology Dept., Guilford College, Greensboro, North Carolina; Preston
Cloud, U.S. Geol. Survey, Univ. of California, Santa Barbara; Edwin
Colbert, curator emeritus, Amer. Museum of Natural History, New York;
Richard Coles, assoc. prof. of biology, Washington Univ., St. Louis;
Arthur W. Combs, educator and psychologist, Greeley, Colo., Barry
Commoner, Washington Univ., St. Louis; Patrick Conant, Dept. of
Entomology, Univ. of Hawaii; Kenneth Cooper, prof. of biology, Univ.
of California, Riverside, Wilford 0. Cross, prof. of ethics, retired,
Madison, Conn.; Sears Crowell, prof. of zoology, Indiana Univ.; Max
Delbruck, Nobel laureate, ClT, Pasadena; M. Benjamin Dell, scientific
assoc. Alcoa Labs, Pittsburgh; Everett Dempster, prof. emer. of
genetics, Univ. of California, Berkeley; R. J. Desnick, assoc. prof.
of genetics, Univ. of Minn.; R. V. Dippell, assoc. prof. of zoology,
Indiana Univ.; Dexter Easton, assoc. prof. of hiol. sciences, Florida
State U., Alfred Emerson, emeritus prof. of biology, Univ, of
Chicago; Edward Ericson, chairman, Board of Leaders, New York Society
for Ethical Culture; Roy P. Fairfield, professor, Union Graduate
School, Yellow Springs, Ohio, Herbert Feigi, regents prof. emeritus,
philosophy, Univ. of Minnesota; Bernard T. Feld, prof. of physics,
MIT, Joseph Fletcher, Univ. of Virginia Medical School; Philip
Fordyce, provost, science education, Florida State Univ.,
Tallahassee; J. L. Fox, assoc. prof. of zoology, Univ. of Tex.,
Austin; Paul Gellert, president, American Ethical Union, NYC; Michael
Ghiselin, assoc. prof. of zoology, Univ. of California, Berkeley;
Luther Val Giddings, Dept. of Genetics, U. of Hawaii; Earl L. Green,
geneticist, past director, Jackson Lab., Bar Harbor, Maine; Arnold
Grobman, chancellor, University of Missouri; Roy Gromme, staff cons.,
Biol. Sci. Curric. Study, U. of Colo.; Charles Hagen, Jr., prof. of
plant sciences, Indiana U., Thomas S. Hall, prof. of biology,
Washington Univ., St. Louis; Viktor Hamburger, prof. of biology,
Washington Univ., St. Louis; The Rev. Prof. Walter Robert Hampshire,
St. Paul's Church, Florida Memorial College, Miami, Elmo Hardy, prof.
of entomology, Univ. of Hawaii; Philip E. Hartman, professor of
biology, Johns Hopkins Univ.; Alex Hershaft, director of
environmental programs, Interstate Electronics Corp., Bethesda,
Maryland; William M. Hexter, prof. of biology, Amherst College,
Mass.; Faith Hickman, Biol. Sci. Curric. Study, Univ. of Colorado;
Yuichiro Hiraizumi, assoc. prof. of zoology, Univ. of Texas at
Austin; Kurt G. Hofer, Dept. of Biol. Sci., Forida State U.,
Tallahassee; D. Frank Holtman, prof. emeritus of microbiology, Univ.
of Tennesse; P. H. Homann, assoc. prof. of biol. sci., Florida State
U., Talla.; Sidney Hook, emeritus prof. of philosophy, NYU, Hoover
Institution, Stanford Univ.; Johns W. Hopkins, Dept. of Biology,
Washington U., St. Louis; N. H. Horowitz, prof. of biology, CIT,
Pasadena; Clark Hubbs, prof. of zoology, Univ. of Texas, Austin; John
A. Hunt, Dept. of Genetics, Univ. of Hawaii; Edna Ruth Johnson,
editor, The Church man magazine; Russell Joyner, exec. director,
Int'l Sec. for General Semantics, San Francisco; Burke H. Judd, prof.
of zoology, Univ. of Texas, Austin; Kenneth Y. Kaneshiro, Dept. of
Entomology, U. of Hawaii; Thomas C. Kaufman, asst. prof. of zoology,
Indiana Univ., David L. Kirk, assoc. prof. of biology, Washington U.,
St. Louis, Otto Krash, Lehman College, CUNY; Daniel H. Kohl, assoc.
prof. of biology, Wash. U., St. Louis; Joyce Kurihara, Dept. of
Entomology, Univ. of Hawaii; Paul Kurtz, prof. of philosophy, SUNY at
Buffalo; Corliss Lamont, honorary president, American Humanist
Association; Dennis Leister, asst. prof. of zoology, Indiana Univ.;
Harlan Lewis, prof. of biology, UCLA; Lionel S. Lewis, prof. of
sociology, SUNY at Buffalo; Walter H. Lewis, prof. of biology,
Washington U., St. Louis; Terrence W. Lyttle, Dept. of Genetics,
Univ. of Hawaii; Bassett Maguire, Jr., Dept. of Zoology, U. of Texas,
Austin; Marjorie Maguire, prof. of zoology, Univ. of Texas at Austin;
A. P. Mahowaid, prof. of zoology, Indiana Univ.; George M.
Malacinski, assoc. prof. of zoology, Indiana Univ.; Spencer R.
Malecha, Dept. of Genetics, Univ. of Hawaii; Richard N. Mariscal,
assoc. prof. of biology, Florida State Univ., Tallahassee; William V.
Mayer, director, Biological Sci. Curric. Study, Univ. of Colorado;
Ernst Mayr, professor emeritus, Harvard Univ.; Mary McConnell, Biol.
Sci. Curric. Study, Univ. of Colorado; Michael Menaker, assoc. prof.
of zoology, U. of Tex. at Austin; David J. Merrell, prof. of zoology,
Univ. of Minnesota; Ming Pi Mi, Dept. of Genetics, Univ. of Hawaii;
Randolph Miller, professor of Christian Nurture, Yale; Florence Moog,
chmn., Dept. of Biol., Washington U., St. Louis; John A. Moore, prof.
of biology, Univ. of Calif. at Riverside; Mary Morain, president,
int'l Soc. for General Semantics, San Francisco, California; the Rev.
Richard Morton, prof. of sociology, retired, Jacksonville Univ.; Jack
Myers, prof. of zoology, Univ. of Texas at Austin; Norman Newell,
paleontologist, Amer. Mus. of Nat. Hist., N.Y.; Alan T. Ohta, Dept.
of Genetics, Univ. of Hawaii; Everett C. Olson, prof. of zoology,
UCLA; J. Bennett Olson, assoc. prof. of biological educ., Purdue
Univ.; David W. Osgood, assoc. prof. of zoology, Butler Univ.; H.
Malcolm Owen, Biology Dept., University of the South; David D.
Perkins, prof. of biology, Stanford Univ.; Lindsey Pherigo, prof.,
St. Paul School of Theology, Kansas City, Missouri; Harold H. Plough,
prof. of biology, Amherst College, Mass.; Sarah Bedicheck Pipkin,
prof. of zoology, Howard U., Washington, D.C.; Rudolf Raff, assoc.
prof. of zoology, Indiana Univ.; Peter H. Raven, Missouri Botanical
Gardens, St. Louis; Marc Rhoades, Dept. of Biology, Johns Hopkins
Univ.; Rollin Richmond, assoc. prof. of zoology, Indiana Univ.;
Austen Riggs, Dept. of Zoology, Univ. of Texas, Austin; Herbert P.
Riley, dist. prof. of botany, emer., Univ. of Kentucky; Carl R.
Rogers, psychologist, Center for the Studies of the Person, La Jolla,
California; Herbert H. Ross, Dept. of Entomology, Univ, of Georgia,
Athens; William Roth, prof. of biological science, Florida State
Univ., Tallahassee; Isaac Ruchman, adjunct prof. emeritus, Univ. of
Kentucky; Rodolfo Ruibal, Dept. of Biology, Univ. of Calif.
Riverside; Edward Samuel, visiting prof. of biology, Indiana Univ.;
Oscar Schotte, Biology Department, Amherst College, Mass.; Ernest R.
Sears, prof. of genetics, Missouri Univ.; Vaughan H. Shoemaker, prof.
of zoology, Univ. of Calif., Riverside; Thomas Shotwell, biological
research consultant, Dallas, Texas; Simon Silver, prof. of biology,
Washington Univ., St. Louis; Daniel Simberloff, prof. of biol.
science, Florida State Univ., Tallahassee; W. Ralph Singleton, emer.
prof. of genetics, Univ. of Virginia; Robert Sinaheimer, prof. of
biology, CIT, Pasadena; Irwin Sizer, dean emeritus, MIT Graduate
School; B. F. Skinner, prof. of psychology, Harvard; Barton Slatko,
prof. of zoology, Univ. of Texas at Austin; John E. Smith, professor
of philosophy, Yale; Laurence H. Snyder, president emeritus, Univ. of
Hawaii; Lee R. G. Snyder, Dept. of Biology, Univ. of California,
Riverside; William Sofer, assoc. prof. of biology, Johns Hopkins
Univ.; Alexander Sokoloff, prof. of genetics, California State
College, San Bernardino; James Spuhler, prof. of anthropology, Univ.
of New Mexico; Harrison Stalker, Dept. of Biology, Washington U., St.
Louis; Curt Stern, prof. of biology, Univ. of California, Berkeley;
the Rev. William Stickney, St. Stephen's Episcopal Church, St. Louis;
Monroe Strickberger, prof. of biology, Univ. of Missouri; Nobuo Suga,
prof. of biology, Washington Univ., St. Louis; Carl P. Swanson,
professor of botany, Univ. of Massachusetts; John Swomley, Jr., prof.
of Christian ethics, St. Paul School of Theology, Kansas City,
Missouri; Sol Tax, emeritus prof. of anthropology, Univ. of Chicago;
Charles Taylor, prof. of biology, Univ. of Calif., Riverside; Harold
Taylor, former pres., Sarah Lawrence College, Bronxville, New York;
Alan R. Templeton, prof. of zoology, Univ. of Texas at Austin;
Richard R. Tolman, proj. dir., Bio. Sci. Curric. Study, Univ. of
Colorado; J. Peter van de Verg, Dept. of Genetics, Univ. of Hawaii;
Maurice Visscher, prof. of physiology, emer., Univ. of Minnesota;
Douglas Vann, Dept. of Genetics, Univ. of Hawaii; Peter Vitousek,
ass't. prof. of zoology, Indiana Univ.; Joseph Wachsman, assoc. prof.
of microbiology, Univ. of Illinois; Ralph Wager, prof. of botany,
retired, Panama City, Florida; Ralph Wagner, prof. of genetics, Univ.
of Texas, Austin; Virginia Walbot, biologist, Washington Univ., St.
Louis; James D. Watson, Nobel laureate, Cold Spring Harbor Lab, New
York; Eric Weinberg, prof. of biology, Johns Hopkins Univ.; Claude A.
Welch, prof. of biology, Macalester College, St. Paul; Marshall R.
Wheeler, prof. of zoology, Univ. of Texas, Austin; Michael J. D.
White, prof., Australian National Univ., Canberra; Maurice
Whittinghill, prof. emeritus, genetics, Univ. of North Carolina;
Albert Wood, prof. of biology emeritus, Amherst College,
Massachusetts; Ralph W. Yerger, prof. of biol. science, Florida State
Univ., Tallahassee; Henry T. Yost, prof. of biology, Amherst College,
Massachusetts; Frank N. Young, prof. of zoology, Indiana Univ.
George Gaylord Simpson, emeritus professor of vertebrate
paleontology, Harvard, University; professor of geosciences,
University of Arizona at Tucson
Coordinator: Bette Chambers, president, American Humanist
Association
Scientists consider that none of their principles, no matter how
seemingly firmly established—and no ordinary "facts" of direct
observation either—are absolute certainties. Some possibility of
human error, even if very slight, always exists. Scientists welcome
the challenge of further testing of any view whatever. They use such
terms as firmly established only for conclusions founded on
rigorous evidence that have continued to withstand searching
criticism.
Linus Pauling, research professor, Linus Pauling Institute of
Science and Medicine, Menlo Park, California
The principle of biological evolution, as just stated, meets these
criteria exceptionally well. It rests upon a multitude of discoveries
of very different kinds that concur and complement one another. It is
therefore accepted into humanity's general body of knowledge by
scientists and other reasonable persons who have familiarized
themselves with the evidence.
Isaac Asimov, author, associate professor of biochemistry, Boston
University School of Medicine
Hudson Hoagland, president emeritus, The Worcester Foundation for
Experimental Biology, Shrewsbury, Massachusetts
Chauncey D. Leake, senior lecturer, Univ. of California at San
Francisco