
Curtis Sabrosky†, Systematic Entomology Laboratory, Washington (Contributor
to Chloropidae (Nearctic))
Neal L. Evenhuis, B. Bishop Museum, Honolulu, Hawaii (Co-Editor, lead for
Mythicomyiidae & Bombyliidae)
Richard C. Wilkerson, Walter Reed BioSystematic Unit, US Army, Washington
(Lead for Culicidae)
Art Borkent, Enderby, British Columbia (Author of
Corethrellidae & Chaoboridae, lead for Ceratopogonidae)
Wayne N.
Mathis, Smithsonian Institution, Washington (Lead for Ephydridae, author
of Camillidae, Canacidae, Coelopidae, Diastatidae, Dryomyzidae &
Periscelididae, contributor to Tethinidae)
Fenja Brodo, Canadian Museum of Nature, Ottawa (Lead for Cylindrotomidae)
Ewa Krzeminska, Institute of Systematics and Evolution of Animals, Polish Academy of Sciences, Krakow
(Lead for Trichoceridae)
Allen
Norrbom, Systematic Entomology Lab., USDA, Washington (Author (P) of
Tephritidae (1999)).
Dalton de Souza Amorim, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Ribeirao Preto
(Editorial Committee)
Lynn E. Carroll, Washington (Author (P) of Tephritidae (1999))
Toyohei Saigusa, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan (Contributor to Empididae
(Nearctic))
Donald W. Webb, Illinois Natural History Survey, Urbana (Lead for
Hilarimorphidae)
Marc de Meyer, Musee Royal de l'Afrique Centrale, Tervuren (Lead for
Mormotomyiidae & Pipunculidae)
D. Elmo Hardy†, University of Hawaii, Honolulu (Lead for Xenastiidae)
Norman
Woodley, Systematic Entomology Lab., USDA, Washington (Author of Apioceridae,
Pelecorhynchidae Stratiomyidae (2001), Xylomyidae & Xylophagidae).
Evert Schlinger, World Spider-Parasitoid Laboratory, Santa Ynez, California
(Author of Acroceridae)
Soenartono Adisomarto, WG on INTI, Ministry of Environment, Jakarta
(Editorial Committee)
Shaun Winterton, North Carolina State University, Raleigh (Lead for Scenopinidae)
Stephen R. Marshall, University of Guelph, Ottawa (Contributor to
Sphaeroceridae (Nearctic))
Peter J. Chandler, Melksham, England (Lead for Platypezidae & Opetiidae)
Brian Stuckenberg, Natal Museum, Pietermaritzburg (Editorial
Committee)
Daniel
J. Bickel, Australian Museum, Sydney (Editorial Committee, contributor to
Dolichopodidae)
Irina
Brake, Entomology, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian
Institution, Washington (GBIF Post-Doctoral Fellow (2003- ), author of
Carnidae & Milichiidae)
Geoffroy Hancock, University of Glasgow, Glasgow (Author of Richardiidae)
Brian V. Brown, Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County, Los Angeles (Author
of Phoridae)
Rudolf Meier, National University of Singapore, Singapore (Lead for Sepsidae)
Alessandra Rung, Beltsville Agricultural Research Center, Beltsville (Author of Aulacigastridae)
Elaine B. Jamison,
Systematic Entomology Lab., USDA, Washington (Data entry specialist).
Scott Fitzgerald, Oregon State University, Corvallis (Lead for Hesperinidae
& Bibionidae)
Eric Fisher, California Department of Food and Agriculture, Sacramento
(Contributor to Asilidae (Nearctic))
George Foster, Washington (Lead for Tethinidae)
F. Christian Thompson,
Systematic Entomology Lab., USDA, Washington (Co-Editor, author (P) of
Tephritidae (1999), author of Syrphidae, contributor to Eurychoromyiidae &
Mormotomyiidae)
L. L. Pechumann†, Cornell University, Ithaca (Contributor to Tabanidae
(Nearctic))
Llyod V. Knutson, Clapiers, France (Lead for Sciomyzidae)
Ian M. White, London (Author (P) of Tephritidae (1999))
Hiroshi Shima, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan (Editorial Committee,
contributor to Tachinidae)
Kyle Apigian, University of California, Berkeley (Lead for Tanypezidae)
Vitali Tanasijtschuk, Zoological Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences, St.
Petersburg (Lead for Chamaemyiidae)
Andrew E. Whittington, National Museums of Scotland, Edinburgh (Author of
Platystomatidae)
Graham C. D. Griffiths, University of Alberta, Edmonston ???? (Contributor
to Agromyzidae & Anthomyiidae (Nearctic))
Matt Peterson, University of Tennessee, Knoxville (Contributor to Limoniidae
& Tipulidae)
Gregory W. Courtney, Iowa State University, Ames (Author of Nymphomyiidae
& Deuterophlebiidae, lead for Blephariceridae)
Martin J. Ebejer, Tamarisk, Balzan, Malta (Contributor to Chyromyidae)
Rudolf Rozkosny, Masaryk University, Brno (Contributor to Sciomyzidae)
Thomas Pape, Swedish Museum of Natural History, Stockholm (Editorial
Committee, author of Oestridae, Rhinophoridae & Sarcophagidae)
Peter Cranston, University of California, Davis (Contributor to Chironomidae
(Nearctic))
Charles Hogue†, Los Angeles County Museum, Los Angeles (Contributor
Blephariceridae (Nearctic))
Amnon Freidberg, Tel Aviv University, Israel (Author (P)of Tephritidae (1999)
& Asteiidae, lead for Chyromyidae)
Michael E. Irwin, University of Illinois, Urbana (Lead for Therevidae)
Wallace Steffan, B. Bishop Museum, Honolulu, Hawaii (Contributor to Sciaridae
(Nearctic))
Emilia P. Nartshuk, Zoological Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences,
St. Petersburg (Lead for Chloropidae)
Adrian Pont, University Museum, Oxford (Editorial Committee, author
of Fanniidae & Muscidae)
The BDWD team consists of two co-editors (Evenhuis & Thompson), an
Editorial Committee (co-editors, plus Adisomarto, Amorim, Bickel,
Pape, Pont, Shima and Stuckenberg), a post-doctoral fellow (Brake) and a
network of collaborators (more 60 now). The following is an alphabetical list
of those who have now signed up for the BioSystematic Database of World
Diptera project team. We apologize to those who have volunteered but are not
yet listed as we have been slow in getting everyone's names on the list.
While the contributions of each member varies, each member is critical to the successful
completion and continued maintenance of the BDWD. So we feel all deserve the appropriate
recognition and thanks of the whole BioDiversity Community for their combined effort to build
an index and information portal to 10% of the known Biological Diversity of the World.
Willis W. Wirth†, Systematic Entomology Lab., USDA, Washington (Contributor
to Ceratopogonidae (Nearctic))
Stephen D. Gaimari, California Department of Food and Agriculture,
Sacramento (Lead for Eurychoromyiidae & Lauxaniidae, author of Celyphidae,
contributor to Chamaemyiidae)
Jindrich Rohacek, Slezske zemske Museum, Opava, Czech Republic (Lead for Sphaeroceridae)
Warning: While we have used terms like "author" when only one person is
responsible for a family taxon, "lead for" to identify the point person who acts for a group of co-
authors, and "contributor to" for co-authors, the final determination of authorship is not made
until a family taxon is published. For those families which have been published as part of the
BDWD, the term author, qualified with a capital P in parentheses, is used for all authors.
Ronald Ward, Walter Reed BioSystematic Unit, US Army, Washington
(Contributor to Culicidae (Nearctic))
Sidney Camras, Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago (Lead for Conopidae)
Elena P. Kameneva, Schmalhausen Institute of Zoology, Kiev (Author of
Ulidiidae)
We have here provided only the minimal information about our team members, such as their
name, institution and location, and their role on the BDWD team. Also, if they have a personal
WWW page, then a link to it is provided.  More detailed information about how to contact our
team members can be found in the Dipterists' Directory.
George Byers, Snow Museum, University of Kansas (Contributor to Tipulidae
(Nearctic))
Darlene Judd, Oregon State University, Corvallis (Author of Tanyderidae)