
” By June 19, 1881, when the charter was issued, twenty Master Masons had joined the lodge by demit and three had been raised to the Sublime Degree of Master Mason since the dispensation was issued.
With the zeal shown in organizing the lodge, it is natural to assume all was peace and harmony. The assumption is erroneous. The first year, officers resigned, the office of secretary was filled by pro-tems, several petitions were rejected and Masonic charges filed. Many Confederate veterans were denied membership. Grand Lodge writings indicate that the feelings of the Civil War were hard to forget and many Confederate veterans were denied membership.
T. E. Haines, Master the first three years, undoubtedly had many trying times. His stature in the community was of such high regard that he was addressed as “Honorable.” In all probability, he was the guiding light and stabilizing influence in the formulative years of King David Lodge.
A petition was prepared asking Crystal Lodge No. 313 at Mitchellville, in whose jurisdiction Altoona lay, for its recommendation to the Grand Master of Masons in Iowa for dispensation. A dispensation was granted November 19, 1880 by the Grand Master. It was in effect until the annual Grand Lodge communication of June 1881.
King David Lodge No. 407 held its first meeting in the new temple in early spring of 1973. There was still work to be completed and several present day members can attest to the fact that the lodge was not carpeted. After completion of the building, improvements continued to be made to the interior and the temple now serves the organizations meeting within its walls in a variety of ways.


The building became debt free in July of 1977. With an investment of less than $50.000, King David Lodge now has a home that would cost approximately $250,000 to replace.
Return to Home Page
In April 1971 the Lodge voted to ask the Grand Lodge trustees for permission to proceed in the building of a new temple. Permission was granted and construction began with the ground breaking ceremony on Sunday, May 23, 1971 at four pm, with Most Worshipful Brother Theodore G. Zacharias, Grand Master of Masons in Iowa, turning the first spade full of dirt. Right Worshipful Brother Doyle Champion, Deputy Grand Master and member of King David Lodge, turned the second spade full. Other Grand Lodge officers participated along with local members and the project was officially underway.
On April 14, 1972, Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form by Grand Master Woodrow W. Morris and other Grand Lodge officers. The casket for the cornerstone was inserted and the first trowel of mortar applied in that historic event. And when the building was completed the several parts fitted with such exactness that it had more the appearance of being the handiwork of professional men.
A letter dated November 19, 1880 states “that the lodge could not be named Crawford because that was the name of one of the petitioners. If King David was a second choice it can be considered a “wise” one.
On August 13, 1880 thirteen Mason’s met in the office of Dr. F. E. English. They desired a lodge in Altoona, Iowa, their new home.
Special Deputy Grand Master Welling and Senior Grand Warden C. S. Binkley were present June 29th when the charter was presented to the local brethren. They also conducted the election and installation of the first officers of the lodge.
LIVING PAST MASTERS