
A continuing subplot weaving through Author, Author is James's 
longstanding relationship with the cartoonist-cum-novelist George du 
Maurier. At its inception, James was the admired litterateur in the 
friendship with du Maurier constantly deferring to his intellectual 
superiority. But, encouraged by his friend, du Maurier turned to 
writing fiction and in 1894 churned out a gigantic best seller  
called Trilby that far outdistanced the works of Henry James, both  
in readership and profitability. It didn't sour the relationship 
between the two friends, but profoundly depressed the struggling James 
coming on the heels of his theatrical disaster with Guy Domville.
This concurrence of triumph and defeat led the author into an 
agonizing reappraisal of his true standing as an artist: a failed 
playwright, an unread novelist, a man whose promise, though  
regularly tried, had never been fulfilled. Anyone who has ever pursued 
writing as a profession will empathize with the self-doubts that sunk 
the author during this, the lowest point of his life. If the reading 
public could go gaga over a lurid thriller about an artist's model  
(Trilby) transformed into a popular opera singer through the 
intercession of a malevolent Jewish hypnotist (Svengali), how 
could that same public also appreciate the subtle psychological 
explorations that he carefully chiseled into books like The 
Ambassadors, The Wings of the Dove, and The Golden Bowl? There 
was something almost perverse in the way that destiny crowned his  
good friend du Maurier with laurel wreaths while stripping James of 
every semblance of commercial success.
Loner that he was, there seems to have been one woman in Henry's life, 
yet his comfortable but guarded relationship with the authoress 
Constance Fenimore Woolson was never, as one what one might say, 
consummated. James seemed to be content with the intellectual stimulus 
provided by a gracious, mature, and undemanding female -- although 
there are several telltale signs that, had he positioned himself more 
intimately with her and she with him, a proper union of two kindred 
spirits might have emerged. But he was content with chat and she was 
too British and well-bred to make a first move. A relationship charged 
with subterranean emotions and squelched impulses that could have  
served as the basis for a typical Jamesian novella.
(Swans - February 13, 2006)  
The great irony in the life of Henry James is that a man who  
suppressed both his homosexual and heterosexual impulses, took refuge 
behind walls of privacy and propriety, disdained marriage and 
eschewed crowds, was able to experience and articulate all the 
subtleties and nuances that clustered beneath the panoply of Victorian 
society. James's ivory tower was his intellect and it remained 
largely unassailed for most of his life. His speech, like his 
writing, was a great web of constantly qualified subordinate clauses  
as looped, swirled, and shiny as bands of tinsel around a 
Christmas tree. Although well-traveled throughout Europe, this   
coddled son of a wealthy, intellectual New York family and  
unapologetic British expatriate was essentially a loner despite a 
hyperactive social life filled with patricians and illustrious 
fellow intellectuals. Given the number and variety of personal 
sensations he denied himself, it is something of a wonder that he was 
as penetrating about human psychology as he clearly was in some 
twenty-five pieces of matchless fiction.
Gallery revolts happened a lot in British theatres in the l890s, when 
decorum was nothing like what it is today. Devastating as it must 
have been for an author who was expecting kudos and flowers, one 
gets a clearer picture of events from George Bernard Shaw who, in 1895, 
had just begun reviewing for The Saturday Review. "When," writes Shaw,  
"some unmannerly playgoer, untouched by either love or religion chooses 
to send a derisive howl from the gallery. . . . are we to sorrowfully admit, 
if you please, that Mr. James is no dramatist, on the general ground 
that 'the drama's laws the drama's patrons give.' Pray which of its 
patrons? -- the cultivated majority who, like myself and all the ablest 
of my colleagues applauded Mr. James on Saturday, or the handful of 
rowdies who brawled at him? It is the business of the dramatic critic 
to educate these dunces, not to echo them." In proceeding to evaluate 
the assets and liabilities of Guy Domville, George Bernard Shaw goes on to say:

The author, humiliated and embittered, forsook playwriting after 
that event, and his self-doubts, which had been gathering for some 
time, were brutally confirmed. To have gone on at all after such a 
rejection -- either as a writer or a human  being -- was tantamount to 
rising from the dead. But it was 1895 and works like What Maisie 
Knew, Wings of the Dove, The Aspern Papers, and Turn Of The 
Screw had not yet been penned. There would be a splendid exoneration  
awaiting him but it would come only long after James was dead and  
buried.
It doesn't necessarily follow that a reader feeling joined at the hip 
with a novel which he cannot put down signifies the onset of great 
literature, but I have to confess that Author, Author kept me  
mesmerized during the three rapt sessions during which, like a 
helpless alcoholic, I emptied it to the lees. But what is pertinent 
are the trains-of-thought a book starts up once the covers are 
closed and, in this case, dozens of railway cars filled with 
tantalizing cargo chugged out of the depot speeding towards far-flung 
destinations. When I finished the book, rather than wedge it onto a 
bookshelf, I felt as if I wanted to place it under glass.
Book Review
I haven't read enough of Lodge's previous books to know whether the 
diction he employs in Author, Author is characteristic of the 
novelist or a deliberate attempt to reproduce the fastidious and  
restrained language we associate with James himself. Either way, its 
meticulous rhythms perfectly match the flights-of-fancy with which 
he shuttles his protagonist between London and Paris, Venice and 
Cheltenham, Florence and Rye.

I believe only a writer with a novelist's sensibility like Lodge  
could have plumbed the depths of James's despair and articulated the  
inner turmoil that ground him down after his literary and 
theatrical defeats. Despite receiving a belated Order of Merit, when 
James died he was simply a literary curiosity to most people in 
England and America; an overly-refined, periodical serialist given to 
elaborate diction and circumlocutory sentence structure. ("Mr. Henry 
James," quipped Oscar Wilde, "writes fiction as if it were a painful 
duty.") But the secret of James's success as an artist is the same as  
that of his failure as a commercial novelist. He possessed a 
sensibility so rarefied and discriminating that it could not easily 
mesh with those of his fellow men. Had it been more commonplace, he 
would have enjoyed a greater measure of success during his lifetime, 
but the world would have been denied the luxury of that penetrating 
consciousness.
Lodge's depiction of the fiasco, ostensibly instigated by rowdy  
gallery hecklers, is a heartrending image of just how humiliating  
public failure can be in the theatre. There is something like the air  
of a public execution about a play that an audience violently  
rejects, and it was utterly traumatic for James, a calamity he 
would remember to his dying day.
The pinnacle of Lodge's novel is a long, ingenious section of  
cross-cutting between James's first night of Guy Domville at the St. 
James theatre and the author's sneaking into Oscar Wilde's An Ideal 
Husband which had just begun its run at the Haymarket. James was too 
beset with opening-night nerves to go directly to his own première.  
The camera cuts between the delighted audience reaction to Wilde's 
epigrammatic wit and the turgid melodrama rapidly alienating the 
audience at Guy Domville. Finally, unable to bear the suspense, James  
leaves the Wilde play and wends his way back to his own theatre  
just in time for the curtain call. The cast appear sullen and 
non-communicative; the audience, obstreperous and restless, but the 
cries of author, author ring out and James is persuaded to step out 
of the wings for a curtain call only to become the victim of a vicious 
barrage of boos and catcalls which reduces him to smithereens.
What clearly emerges is that cultivated as he was in literature, 
James was a gormless tyro as far as theatre was concerned. After a  
deceptive success in Southport, a small provincial town near Mersyside, 
the play he adapted from his early novel The American received 
mixed-to-disparaging notices when it opened in London. James seems to 
have assumed that playwriting was simply a matter of assimilating the 
formulae which had worked for previous London successes; as if 
playwriting was a set of rules that could be learned by rote and 
then applied to whatever project was at hand. Although his provincial 
success wilted when the play came to London, the desire to increase 
his fortune by becoming a dramatist was well and truly implanted. 
Since his childhood he had been an inveterate theatergoer and,  
starting in the 1870s, right up to the turn of the century, he had  
written play reviews both for American and English publications, so 
playwriting seemed a logical gradation.
Guy Domville, he concludes, "is a story, and not a mere situation hung out on a gallows 
of a plot. And it is a story of fine sentiment and delicate manners, 
with an entirely worthy and touching ending." But at the start of his 
review, Shaw quite aptly indicts the work for being irretrievably 
"old fashioned" which, unquestionably it was, and Shaw's own theatrical 
efforts soon to emerge, would dramatically illustrate just how jaded 
plays like James's had become.
by Charles Marowitz
Almost as imaginative as James himself is David Lodge, whose novel, 
Author, Author, subtly fictionalizes many of the known facts of 
James's life in order to give us a glimpse of the inner self which is 
excluded from much of his oeuvre, even in those autobiographical 
reminiscences where one would expect to find them.