
David Lodge
Dylan Thomas' "Under Milk Wood" had quite an influence on me, with its 
contrasts of regional accents and such. Certain radio comedies and 
catchphrases are also embedded in my memory. But I'm not sure they're 
connected with the fate of the novel, though they certainly turned me on to 
the rich tapestry of human speech.
$24.95).
I think all novelists, when they get an idea, are terribly secretive about 
it. If they hear about another book that sounds similar, the last thing 
they'll do is read it, because they want to develop their own in 
uncontaminated form.
Q: You describe yourself as a ventriloquial novelist. Do you find it hard 
to assume the voice of a woman? Is that one reason why Helen Reed in "Thinks . 
. ." seems a less surefooted intellect than her opposite number, Ralph 
Messenger?
otherwise we'd have the answer.
Q: In "Consciousness and the Novel" you mention that Ian McEwan's 
"Atonement" may herald a return to the third-person novel of consciousness in 
postmodern fiction. Do you have an idea what social or cultural circumstances 
might favor such a change?
Lodge talked with The Chronicle by phone from his home in Birmingham, 
England.
A comic writer has to imagine his work being received by an innocent reader 
who doesn't know what's coming -- something inevitable but incongruous. That's 
why writing comedy is really a rather serious business. As a reader I myself 
am basically gullible if I'm reading for pleasure.
A: That was the first time I'd ever written part of a novel in the first 
person from a woman's point of view.
Q: You speak of being glad you didn't discover Richard Powers' "Galatea 2.
2" before you wrote "Thinks . . ." Have you had that experience before -- 
relief at not having known of another writer's work sooner?
A: No. I'm often asked that question because I was for many years a teacher 
who specialized in formal analysis of novels. I am a very self-conscious 
novelist and have names for all the things I do. But I've never found the two 
processes inimical. Anyway, you have to have a sort of arrogance to be a 
novelist. I think readers can become better readers by trying to write a bit 
of fiction, even if it's not very good.
Q: Do you have a definition of comedy or the comic?
I went through a period of foregrounding meta-fiction in "Small World" and 
"Changing Places," for example. But I think in the later books this is somehow 
naturalized. There are various levels, but they're all explained.
Another curious thing is that, with great comic writers like Evelyn Waugh, 
you laugh again with each rereading. We have a curious way of being able to 
damp down our own foreknowledge when we reread a classic. We seem to be able 
to let it come again as if unexpectedly, perhaps because we know we get more 
pleasure that way.
He produced nearly a dozen novels and critical works while still teaching, 
including books that won the Hawthornden and Whitbread prizes and two short-
listed for the Booker Prize.
Q: What's the most just criticism your fiction has received?
I think it's a combination of logic and surprise. There's got to be a 
feeling that the course of events makes sense and yet there's some reverse. 
It's both a matter of events and a matter of style, of where the right words 
appear.
Since then he has published three novels, "Paradise News," "Therapy" and 
"Thinks . . .," and three collections of nonfiction, including his new book, 
"Consciousness and the Novel: Connected Essays" (Harvard University; 320 pages;
In "Nice Work," part of the narrative is filtered through a woman's 
consciousness, but to write in the voice of a woman was a new challenge to me 
and quite difficult. It's one that few male novelists take on, and I felt 
fairly tentative about it at first. I suppose by making her a novelist I was 
making it easier because I have an idea of what a novelist's inner life is 
like.
A: I tend not to. When you're trying to define what to say and how to say 
it, you don't want to be distracted by other people's practice of the same 
thing. It takes me quite a long time to produce a novel now. I have to brood 
on it for a long while and then do considerable research. I've been working on 
a new book for quite some time, but I'm not ready to say what it's about. Not 
even my publisher knows yet.
Q: Do you ever chafe against the need to acknowledge your self-
consciousness through meta-fictional devices?
Q: You emphasize movies as an influence that shifted the early 20th century 
novel away from the modernist fascination with interior life to an external 
focus on dialogue. But what about radio?
A: Not really, except that the cycle of fashion has to change, and it seems 
to change faster and faster these days. The first-person sort of confessional 
novel and the life-writing book have produced some extremely good work, but 
after a while people tire of them. Moving on almost certainly means a return 
to the past, but in a new way. I guess Jonathan Franzen's "The Corrections" 
and McEwan's "Atonement" are the big examples of this shift in the past year.
A: I think radio didn't have much real aesthetic impact until late in the 
'30s and during the war. As a medium for narrative, it has diminished in 
importance a lot since television came along, though in my childhood, it was 
very important.
Some critics maintain that Lodge has never stopped teaching, despite 
stepping down from his professorship, and for that readers of "Consciousness 
and the Novel" will be grateful. For in the new collection, he explains much 
about the inner workings of several classic novels and his own grappling with 
the theme of artificial intelligence in "Thinks . . ."
A: No. I've never written a novel that turned out to be so thematically 
similar to someone else's. Artificial intelligence was also a subject on which 
I felt sort of unprepared.
In 1987, British novelist and critic David Lodge, 67, retired from teaching 
at the University of Birmingham after 27 years to devote all his time to 
writing.
For the particular language in which the novel renders consciousness -- 
free indirect speech -- there's really no equivalent in radio.
A: As a writer I'm free to do whatever I like. I don't feel an obligation 
to work in any particular way. Each novel is a problem of its own, and I try 
to solve it in its own terms. A literary novelist today can't use the devices 
of realism in a nice, innocent way. We know that realism is a particular set 
of conventions. Most sophisticated modern writers like to build into their 
novels an awareness of that fact.
Q: Do you read other contemporary novels while working on your own?

E-mail Kenneth Baker at kennethbaker@sfchronicle.com.
A: Aristotle is supposed to have written a treatise on comedy that was lost,
Q: Does your awareness of the novel's devices inhibit the process of 
writing fiction?
A: The criticisms that seem to me patently wrongheaded don't worry me. 
There are others that worry me, because I feel they may be right, but I guess 
if I believed them, I'd have to stop writing. Some say I try to control the 
reader's responses too much, that the teacher in me comes out in trying to 
make it all too clear and resolved. I can see what such critics are getting at 
without being too resentful of it. But I haven't adjusted my practice 
consciously as a result, though one never knows what one might be doing 
unconsciously.
Helen is actually much more like me than Messenger is. He is a very 
different type of man than me, an overbearingly confident, sexually predatory 
type. I had to model him on a type of man I sometimes meet but feel little 
sympathy with.