
Awards & Honors
Professor
	University of Notre Dame
	Department of Biological SciencesP.O. Box 369Notre Dame, IN 46556-0369United StatesTelephone: 574.631.6094Fax: 574.631.7413
	David.M.Lodge.1@nd.edu
Biography
Leadership
Research Habitat
	EstuariesLakes and rivers
Aldo Leopold Leadership Program Fellow as of: 1999
Following postdoctoral research and teaching at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Lodge joined the faculty at the University of Notre Dame in 1985, where is now Professor. At Notre Dame, Lodge has taught a variety of undergraduate and graduate courses, including General Ecology and General Biology. In response to the exponential growth in biological knowledge (and the length of textbooks), Lodge and colleagues have designed innovative courses that focus on central concepts and laboratory-intensive approaches. Since 1988, Lodge has been the College of Science Director for the undergraduate Arts & Letters/Science Honors Program. Dr. Lodge's research has been covered in many newspapers (e.g., Chicago Tribune, South Bend Tribune, New York Times wire service), on several local TV news shows (in both Wisconsin and Indiana), on radio (EarthWatch Radio), in popular and scientific magazines (Audubon, Science, BioScience), and in outdoor publications (e.g., B.A.S.S. Times).
Research Areas
	Rivers and lakes
Education
	B.S., University of the South, Sewanee, Tennessee (Summa cum Laude, with Honors), D. Phil., University of Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar
Links
Faculty Page
Publications
Degree Area
	Biology
Keywords
	Conservation Biology, invasive species, plant-animal interactions, ecology of freshwaters
Professor David Lodge's interests in lakes, streams, and wetlands grew from his childhood fascination with the fish, crayfish, insects and other freshwater life of Georgia and Alabama where he grew up. In his current research as a freshwater ecologist, Lodge examines the many ways that human activities change the habitats that provide people with drinking water, recreation, fisheries, and valuable biodiversity. Lodge's work addresses the following situations: all over the world, many lakes that were once clear are now green with algae; in North America, many lakes have very different kinds of fish now than 100 years ago; in a northern Wisconsin study area, about 75 of the lakes have lost the native species of crayfish in the last 60 years; on the southeastern coast of the US, exploding populations of snow geese are destroying lake vegetation; and in tropical Africa, the human parasitic disease bilharzia, which is carried by freshwater snails, is increasing. All these ecological changes are being caused by increasing human use of the landscape, increasing human use of limited water supplies, or by humans moving plant and animal species from one place to another. Lodge tests possible solutions to these problems with studies in various parts of the United States, Denmark, and Kenya. Financial support for these studies has come from NSF, EPA, NOAA Sea Grant, Ducks Unlimited, and the Fulbright Commission.