
- George Thomas
I THINK it was Aldous 
        Huxley who said that man is eternally alone. Try as we might, we simply 
        cannot get into another's mind. We never truly know just what is going 
        on there. And, however much we might try, we can never, not truly, let 
        someone else into ours.

As Messenger explains 
        to her "crying is a puzzler," she asks about laughter: "Could 
        you design a robot that would laugh at another robot's jokes?" And 
        as Messenger, ever quick to discount "humanness," sees no reason 
        why not, Helen ventures that she "doesn't believe a machine could 
        ever feel amused . . . Or happy, or sad-or bored." Aren't these human 
        qualities based on human emotion and not mere biology?

For instance, Messenger 
        thinks "crying is a puzzler." He hasn't figured out just why, 
        scientifically speaking, human beings do it. What once useful behavior 
        is it a modification of?
Literary critic Harold 
        Bloom insisted that such "self-overhearing," as in Shakespeare's 
        great soliloquies, not only captures the process of self-consciousness, 
        but also gives us a way of thinking about it. In short, books teach us 
        about the nature of self and give us a glimpse of humanity.
Without giving away 
        the story, a series of events push Messenger and Helen to come to terms 
        with the distinctness of being human. Amusing, at times profound, Lodge's 
        "Thinks . . ." is acutally a very humane novel.
Messenger's ideas 
        cast doubt on Helen's thoughts, as she wonders if her inherited ideas 
        are just that. But Helen pushes Messenger-impervious though he is-to grapple 
        with novelists and their novels as great ways of getting inside. Henry 
        James may have much more to teach us about the subject than cognitive 
        science. As Helen puts it, if rather conveniently, in one of her lectures:
Even their methods 
        of speaking to themselves capture their differences. Messenger dictates 
        his thoughts into a tape recorder or computer while Helen writes them 
        in a journal. But each is a way of being as "unconscious" about 
        consciousness as possible, writing only to capture their thoughts and 
        not to display them for others.
David Lodge takes 
        up these vexing issues, often to hilarious results, in his new novel "Thinks 
        . . ." Lodge is the master of the academic romance, going back to 
        "Changing Places," where his wit and elegant styling are on 
        fine display. But what is most remarkable about Lodge, is that he manages 
        to be so funny while talking about serious ideas seriously. "Thinks 
        . . ." may be his most ambitious book to date, but it doesn't have 
        the ease and grace, nor the engagement with the reader, of his best books.
While Messenger does 
        indulge his human appetites, for food and sex mostly, they're still biological 
        urges. Even if he enjoys the particular aesthetics of these two needs, 
        that doesn't extend to, say, the quality of prose. The world does not 
        need, Messenger is sure, "another novelist."
But what about literature? 
        It's not just a triumph of human achievement. It's centrally preoccupied 
        by the problem of human consciousness. It explores human thought, and 
        what it means to be human. Moreover, literature invites us into someone 
        else's mind to see what they're thinking.
In this one, Ralph 
        Messenger is a distinguished professor of cognitive science whose work 
        explores consciousness. He's quite convinced that human consciousness 
        can be artificially replicated--that there is not anything truly distinct 
        about it, or for that matter about being human. Messenger is a scientist, 
        which at one level means he's an utter materialist. He sees humans as 
        derivative of their biology who cast doubt on anything they might associate 
        with the soul.
The battle is joined, 
        and Lodge, through Helen and Messenger, wrestles with the question of 
        whether we are elaborate machines or beings with a soul. Lodge doesn't 
        stack the deck for the novelist, but takes up themes that have preoccupied 
        his previous novels. He neatly merges form and substance to let us into 
        the differences of Messenger's and Helen's minds as they each tell different 
        parts of the story.
Which brings us to 
        Helen Reedy, a visiting novelist who plays the humanist foil to Messenger's 
        materialist. Recently widowed, she resists Messenger's advances, at least 
        at first. He's married, which means something to her. But she still engages 
        him socially and intellectually.