
None of this matters, however, when Lodge's master essay gets on to real fiction - Defoe, Richardson (S), Fielding, Austen, Dickens, Eliot (G); James (H), Conrad, Ford Madox Ford, Joyce, Woolf, Lawrence and others. He proceeds historically, beginning with the shift from traditional third-person to first-person narration (the first move closer to consciousness) in fictitious autobiographies, confessions and journals. He goes on to show how epistolary novels took us a little closer in, for "when a story is reported in letters, the first-person phenomenon of experience is reported in a first-person narrative while it is still fresh". This leads in turn to an excellent discussion of "free indirect style" and its unique power to render consciousness directly.
The Keys to the Street: location
Some still like to attribute the free indirect style revolution to Flaubert in the 19th century, but Lodge shows how it emerged in Europe in the 18th century, in the novels of Fanny Burney and Maria Edgeworth (Lodge gives an example from Burney's Camilla, first published in 1796), and was quickly brought to a high art by Jane Austen. I say "in Europe" because the great Lady Murasaki is already using it confidently in  The Tale of Genji, which was written around AD1000. She doesn't use it a lot, though, and it sometimes feels as if she hasn't fully realised what she has done. Lodge makes the same point about Burney: "Why, having discovered this technique, Fanny Burney did not use it more extensively we shall never know."
Lodge is good on stream of consciousness, but it's puzzling that he doesn't mention Dorothy Richardson, who is generally held to have originated the technique in English (although she once rightly remarked on the "perfect imbecility"of the term). Her passage from  Pointed Roofs (1915) -
Does it matter that the return of consciousness story is inaccurate? Not really. It's good publicity for an amazingly interesting subject. But Lodge compounds the inaccuracy by suggesting that the return of consciousness was encouraged by "the discovery in quantum physics that an event is absolutely inseparable from its observation". Now that really would have been a discovery, because it would have proved the existence of an omniscient being. Nothing else could have observed all the googolplex-to-the-power-of-googolplex (etc) events that happened in the universe before sentient, observing creatures like rabbits and ourselves evolved. (Never mind the point that a sufficient number of appropriately distributed demigods would have done just as well.) And then there are all the unobserved events that have happened since and are happening now at the centre of the earth or Uranus, or in your cupboards and drains.
It was in 1994 that Francis Crick published  The Astonishing Hypothesis  - the hypothesis in question being "that 'You', your joys and your sorrows..., your sense of personal identity and free will, are in fact no more than the behaviour of a vast assembly of nerve cells and their associated molecules". Crick was high on the latest neuroscience, and understandably so. But neuroscience has added precisely nothing to our ability to grasp the basic materialist idea that the mind is just the brain. That was already old news in the 18th century, when thinkers such as the philosopher-chemist Joseph Priestley took it to be more than mere hypothesis. "Mind", Priestley wrote in 1777, "is not a substance distinct from the body... sensation and thought do necessarily result from the organization of the brain... what I call myself is an organized system of matter."
<!--

				/* set the domain in anticipation of the ad*/
				if(setDomainForAds) {
					setDomainForAds();
				};

			//-->
But no one with any ear or eye or nose - respect, feeling, gift, care - for reality believed a word of it. Consciousness was always central on the real agenda. It was never ignored. Important experimental work on consciousness continued in psychology throughout the narrow, wacko behaviourist decades, and the issue was always of primordial importance for all sensible philosophers of mind, the ones who now find it faintly exasperating to read - several times a week - that the topic of consciousness reeled in from the wilderness only about 10 years ago.
The final advance was the "stream-of-consciousness" technique. The psychologist William James (brother of Henry) introduced the term in 1890, because he was fed up with the old atomistic metaphors of trains, chains, collections, bundles and heaps that were then commonly used to describe mental processes, and we're stuck with it now. But it's not a very good metaphor. Streams have pools and falls, weeds and stones, not to mention waterboatmen and fish, and yet the suggestion of smooth, uninterrupted flow remains and is as inaccurate as Joyce's rendering of Stephen Dedalus's consciousness in  Ulysses (1922) is accurate: "Who watches me here? Who ever anywhere will read these written words? Signs on a white field. Somewhere to someone in your flutiest voice. The good bishop of Cloyne took the veil of the temple out of his shovel hat: veil of space with coloured emblems hatched on its field. Hold hard. Coloured on a flat: yes, that's right."
Here again, though, a linear historical approach seems inadequate, since postmodernism seems as old as Laurence Sterne (1713-68) or Callimachus (third century BC). And Lodge is too accommodating to looney-tunes cultural relativists such as Clifford Geertz, who think - with the supreme insensitivity to human reality that one finds only in professional anthropologists - that the sense of the individual self is not a fundamental and universal feature of human existence, but a peculiar, local, recent western invention (tell that to the Buddha). Members of this academic faction use the word "humanist" as their ultimate term of abuse, and it's not clear what they're doing in a nice book like this - full of good feeling, a book that is a pleasure to read as it makes its case for the novel's plausible claim to be the most powerful tool we have for the recording and examination of consciousness.
Review: Edith Wharton by Hermione Lee
Review: The English Breakfast by Kaori O'Connor
Consciousness and the Novel  reprints a number of recent lectures and reviews, revises and expands two previously unpublished lectures, and ends with an animated interview. Around the table there are Dickens, James, Forster, Waugh, Updike, Roth and the Amises, all up for peer review by the kindly David Lodge. At the far end is old-young Kierkegaard, one of the textual heroes of Lodge's 1995 novel Therapy. In a corner, Lodge himself, learning from his interviewer, Craig Raine, what he (Lodge) was really up to in his most recent novel  Thinks...  (2000). In the chair, the titular essay, 90 pages long, commanding the scene.
· Galen Strawson is professor of philosophy at the University of Reading.
Review: The Big Fat Bitch Book by Kate Figes, and Achtung Schweinehund! by Harry Pearson
If Joyce has a fault it is his failure of realism - or experimentalist nerve - in making his mindstreams too consequential: every one of his characters' thought-contents can be made sense of in the light of what has gone before or the external surroundings. One thing leads too much to another, however oddly. Joyce's rendering of consciousness is just not messy enough -though here he can reasonably invoke narrative licence.
Actually, there may be something to the idea that consciousness is everywhere, and is somehow constitutive of the physical universe. It may turn out to be the most plausible, hard-nosed position for any serious materialist to adopt. "Matter is/ Much odder than we thought," as Auden said in 1939, and consciousness is quite certainly physics's greatest unsolved problem. But the standard idea that an event is inseparable from its observation is just scientific silliness. It's one more instance of the fabulous confusion of epistemology with metaphysics - of what we can know with what there actually is - that ruled and wasted so many careers in the last century.
Review: The Devil's Guide to Hollywood by Joe Eszterhas
Review: Queen of Fashion: What Marie Antoinette Wore to the Revolution by Caroline Weber
Lodge explains free indirect style by contrasting three simple sets of sentences: 1) "'Is that the clock striking 12?' Cinderella exclaimed. 'Dear me, I shall be late.'" This, as he says, is "a combination of direct or quoted speech and a narrator's description". 2) "Cinderella asked if the clock was striking 12 and expressed a fear that she would be late." This is reported or indirect speech, "in which the same information is conveyed but the individuality of the character's voice is suppressed by the narrator's". 3) "Was that the clock striking 12? She would be late." This is the free indirect style, in which "Cinderella's concern is now a silent, private thought, expressed in her   own words, to which we are given access without the overt mediation of a narrator... The effect is to locate the narrative in Cinderella's own consciousness." We get consciousness from the inside and in the present moment, without any of the communicative intent essential to epistolary novels. The gain in power and immediacy is immense, even in such a trivial example.
On on into "postmodernism", on - in Lodge's local canon - to Waugh, Greene, Green (H), Powell, Isherwood, Orwell, Fowles, Spark, Bradbury, Barth, Vonnegut, Nicholson Baker, McEwan, Lodge himself and many others. Lodge's account of the (quasi-behaviourist) influence of cinema on postmodernism is very telling. His overall perspective is sure and clear and valuable. He has many insightful things to say about the rise and rise of the first-person novel, the fictional "I".
Priestley was a devout Unitarian Christian, and Lodge makes a common mistake in thinking that materialism is essentially at odds with Christianity. It is, for one thing, a key part of the Creed that the afterlife involves the resurrection of the (brain-including) body. Many today who believe in life after death seem to think that when you die you waft off somewhere and continue some sort of conscious existence. But the original, time-honoured story is quite different: what happens is that you die, and the next thing you know is that it is the Day of Judgement, and you are setting off for it fully embodied.
Virginia Woolf credited Richardson with inventing "a sentence we might call the psychological sentence of the feminine gender", but here at least she's using the psychological sentence of any thought-drifting human being.
Review: Dynasties by David Landes
"certainly it was wrong to listen to sermons... stultifying... unless they were intellectual... lectures like Mr Brough's... that was as bad, because they were not sermons... Either kind was bad and ought not to be allowed... a homily... sermons... homilies... a quiet homily might be something rather nice... and have not Charity - sounding brass and tinkling cymbal... Caritas... I have none I am sure..." - is better, I think, than when rendered in Joyce's Molly-style, although some may be too used to Molly to see this: "certainly it was wrong to listen to sermons stultifying unless they were intellectual lectures like Mr Broughs that was as bad because they were not sermons either kind was bad and ought not to be allowed a homily sermons homilies a quiet homily might be something rather nice and have not Charity sounding brass and tinkling cymbal Caritas I have none I am sure".
The big splat
In fact, though, the story is mostly myth. It's true that some 20th-century philosophers and psychologists, crazed by theory, really did deny the existence of consciousness. Some danced in the behaviourist footsteps of Ryle and Wittgenstein (or rather, their versions of Ryle and Wittgenstein), holding that to be in intense pain is really just to behave in a certain way or be disposed to behave in a certain way. Some said that an orgasm is really just a "sentence in the head" with no sort of conscious feel to it at all. (Post-coital behaviourist joke: A says to B: "That was great for you. How was it for me?")
Ian Rankin explains why they are giving away copies of Kidnapped on the streets of Edinburgh

There are further problems in Lodge's survey. Ian Watt's  The Rise of the Novel misleads him into the view that with "I think, therefore I am" Descartes made consciousness "the basis for a definition of man" (Descartes was just trying to work out what he could know with absolute certainty). Lodge also endorses the truly sad cultural-relativist view that not only the word "consciousness" but even the concept itself did not exist before about 1650. Tell that to a shepherd boy alone on a hill 5,000 years ago. Tell it to any little girl in the 100,000-year or so history of  Homo sapiens sapiens who discovers (aged two, say) that other people can't know what she's thinking. It's about as plausible as the view that we didn't have the concept of breathing or excreting before 1650.
David Hume was closer to the truth, describing the process of consciousness as "fluctuating, uncertain, fleeting..., in a perpetual flux", thoughts and experiences "succeed[ing] each other with an inconceivable rapidity". For most people, inner thought is broken and hiccupy. There are gaps and fadings and fugues. It seizes up, it flies off, it suddenly flashes with extraneous matter. It fits Dan Dennett's "Pandemonium" model of the mind-brain, which depicts not-yet-conscious words, ideas, mood-tones, thoughts, impulses of all sorts jostling competitively for emergence into consciousness.