
By David Lodge
Rebecca Radner is a San Francisco writer whose work has appeared in New England Review.
Like the central character, ``Therapy'' gets better as it goes on. By the 
end, Tubby is a hero, all the more appealing for being so extremely and 
comically unlikely.
``Right, here goes,'' begins Tubby Passmore, hero and narrator of 
``Therapy.'' Tubby has been asked to keep a journal by Alexandra, his 
cognitive behavior therapist. He also consults a physiotherapist, an 
acupuncturist and an aromatherapist, having given up on yoga. To the tune of 
``Jealousy,'' he croons, ``Therapy! Nothing but therapy! It's never-ending/ 
Not to mention what I'm spending . . .''

Next Tubby flies to Los Angeles to find Louise, an agent who made a pass 
at him years ago. Not having learned much, he disastrously quotes more 
Kierkegaard. When he takes Samantha, an apprentice TV writer, with him on a 
weekend to Copenhagen, Tubby tells her, ``As I started to explore Copenhagen 
and think about Kierkegaard . . . it was as if I felt his presence, like a 
spirit or a good angel, saying, `Don't exploit this young girl.' He had a 
thing about young girls, you see.'' ``But I'm dying to be exploited,'' 
ambitious Samantha retorts. ``Come and exploit me, in any position you 
like.'' But he can't.
Viking; $22.95; 321 pages
Finally in bed with Tubby after years of platonic friendship, Amy is 
appalled. Wearing his knee support as well as a bandage for tennis elbow, he 
makes her feel ``like a cross between a hooker and an orthopaedic nurse.'' 
And while Amy is buried in A.S. Byatt's ``Possession,'' in the next deck 
chair Tubby is deep in his copy of ``Fear and Trembling.''
Tubby is helped along on his quest for midlife meaning when his 
pretentious friend Amy asks, ``How's your Angst?'' Looking up the word in 
the dictionary, he is fatally directed to the 19th century Danish 
philosopher Kierkegaard, originator of the term ``existentialism.'' Tubby 
has found his guru.
A successful, prosperous TV writer, apparently happily married, Tubby is 
a mess and knows it. Fifty-eight, fat and bald, he is depressed. A 
mysterious knee problem has been causing him great pain. Now he's impotent, 
and his career writing for television is in jeopardy. Contemplating ``a life 
without sex, without tennis, without a TV show,'' he hasn't a clue as to 
what's wrong with him. ``I don't mean my knee. I mean my head. My mind. My 
soul.''
When his workaholic wife, Sally, abruptly ends the marriage, Tubby loses 
his bearings and proceeds on a course of hilarious self-destruction. Trying 
to make up for all those lost years of fidelity, he takes Amy to Tenerife on 
a sulfurous holiday that gives full scope to Lodge's sardonic eye for 
ghastly details.
What is noteworthy about Lodge's achievement is that, ridiculous though 
Tubby is -- and knows himself to be -- he also has the dignity of his 
beliefs, which begin to make more and more sense in their own peculiar way. 
What's more, despite the fun Lodge has with therapy, the point of this book 
is hardly the silliness of such help, or offshoots of it. Indeed, it is 
sympathetic Alexandra who gets him started writing his journal; later, his 
aromatherapist's use of lavender awakens memories of his first love, which 
stimulates him to begin a search for her. It's a combination of that search, 
his writing, and his improbable teacher that will affect him most deeply.
``The special thing about a journal,'' Tubby writes near the end of his 
journey, ``is that the writer doesn't know where his story is going, he 
doesn't know how it ends; so it seems to exist in a sort of continuous 
present. . . .'' It's Tubby's bravery in confronting this present, immersing 
himself in its pain as well as seeking out its possibilities, that saves 
him. In a deeply satisfying denouement, Lodge combines the spirit of 
Kierkegaard with that of Tubby's much-endangered TV show, silliness and 
suffering, united to the advantage of both.