
"The track and field facility will indeed be a benefit to everyone concerned," said UNH Coordinator of Track and Field Jim Boulanger. "That includes the men's and women's track and field teams, athletics, the University community, and the state of New Hampshire. Thanks to all of the alumni, friends and parents who have been so generous with their donations."
The official ground breaking will take place on March 9, 2001, with a completion date set for Sept. 1, 2001 The groundbreaking ceremony is especially meaningful, as it also celebrates legendary track and field coach Paul Sweet's 100th birthday. Sweet, who coached at UNH for 46 years, began his career with the Wildcats back in 1924 as a member of the track and field staff. He did not retire until 1970. During his tenure at the University, Sweet mentored some of the top athletes of his time. In 1927, the UNH men went on to win the Championship of America Mile Relay under Sweet, with Atkins himself running the lead-off leg. Sweet led his team to the New England Championships in 1931, while in 1941, Sweet's own Matthew J. Flaherty became the Wildcats' first-ever IC4A champion. Sweet's 1942 squad, led by Ed Styrma and Boo Marcom, placed third at the IC4A's and Marcom eventually went on to win the NCAA title in the pole vault.
"Our ability to finish this project is enormously important, not only for the track and field teams, but for all of our intercollegiate programs and the University community as well," said UNH Athletic Director Marty Scarano. "All who contributed to this landmark facility are to be commended and thanked."
The plans for the new track feature a new 400-meter synthetic surface track, eight 42 inch-wide lanes, runways for pole vault and jump pits for the long and triple jumps, a 3,000-meter steeplechase, space for throwing events, a new timing system, a new public address system and complete telecommunications wiring.
This project has been made possible through many gifts, the largest of which is the Reggie Atkins gift of $750,000.
"We are tremendously excited about the new track and sincerely thank everyone in the community who has made this possible," said UNH Foundation President Young Dawkins III.
DURHAM, N.H.-The University of New Hampshire has announced that it will be moving forward with the development of a 2.15 million dollar track and field facility which will be located behind the field house where the old outdoor track now exists.
"I don't know where the years have gone, but when I look back, I realize how fortunate I was to spend half of them at UNH with the wonderful students, the colleagues and the great friends," said Sweet of his career in Durham.
To date, the full extent of the project has been privately fundraised. Continued fundraising will take place to add to the scope of the project and assure that it is a "state of the art" facility.
"This is literally a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to honor Coach Sweet on his 100th birthday and dedicate a facility, which so exemplifies the standard he and Jim Boulanger have established," said Scarano.
"Our ability to move forward with the track project is a major step in our commitment to upgrade our athletic facilities," said UNH President Joan Leitzel. "We are extremely grateful to the donors who have made this possible."