
That is the question, prompted by Mark Drozdowski's musings on the matter in the June 14th Chronicle of Higher Ed.
I understand the point Mr. Dawkins makes about how "advancement" is a field larger than fund-raising. But the different schools at my university maintain separate and relevant accreditations. The business school is accredited by the business-school people, the law school by the law-school folks. (Yeah, I know, terribly precise of me. But you get the point.)
JUST FOR THE RECORD: I have not memorized the starting date of every job I've ever had. 2-1-2: it's an easy mnemonic and for some reason it's stuck in my brain for all eternity....
Dr. Drozdowski ends the artcile stating he's still undecided about whether to try and jump the hoops for the CFRE. And I don't blame him.
Dawkins also noted that his committee was reluctant to endorse a credential that was relevant to only one slice of the council's membership. The organization represents all of educational advancement -- including marketing and communications, alumni affairs, and government relations -- and not just fund raising. "CASE is committed to the advancement field as a whole," Dawkins says, "and CFRE simply doesn't cover the breadth of professional scope that CASE focuses on."
Posted at 09:00 AM  | Permalink
...or *not* to CFRE.
« Sunday Backtrack: Op-Eggers |

Main
| A Passion Poser »
TrackBack URL for this entry:http://www.typepad.com/t/trackback/832483
At the end of this all, I have to say I'm with Dr. Drozdowski: sitting on the fence. At least I'm in good company.
Listed below are links to weblogs that reference To CFRE...:
So, am I glad that CASE takes the holistic view of advancement work, understanding, for example, that the work I do in grants management has everything to do with supporting the university's mission and reputation, and isn't mere money-grubbing? Or am I distressed that the specific skills and credentials relevant to my slice of the advancement pie (thank you Mr. Dawkins) aren't of independent value? After all, my colleagues over in the PR department of university advancement are *not* qualified to do my work, nor am I qualified to do theirs. Isn't that a truth that bears acknowledgment?
I don't want to quote too extensively from Dr. Drozdowski's article (it's worth a read in its entirety), but I will reproduce the key points of his argument, as I understand it.
But here is what, to me (and maybe to Dr. Drozdowski?), is the kicker:
I only started working really-truly-professionally in development on February 1, 2002. I'd done some volunteer grant-writing for organizations in which I participated---community choirs and the like. But February 1, 2002 is the day I started working as a "Development Associate," and began the road that led me here.  So, since the CFRE application process requires you to have five full years of professional fund-raising experience under your belt, I'd not taken the time to examine the process particularly closely.
Young Dawkins III, president of the University of New Hampshire Foundation and chairman of the CASE's subcommittee on credentialing, said the council "respects the work that CFRE does in helping to advance the profession, but we could find no real correlation between certification and success in the field."
But I'd always assumed, somewhere in the back of my mind, that I'd go for it once I hit the 5-year mark. Part of it is this good-student neurosis of mine: that sneaking certainty that I'm not *really* qualified to do something until some teacher-type has *told* me (and by the proper sequence of post-surname letters, the world) that I'm qualified.
Now I have to wonder. To my knowledge, I am the only one of seven fund-raising professionals at my school who maintains a membership in AFP. Maybe I oughta be paying my dues to CASE instead.