
The exam is "designed to test the baseline fundamental knowledge a candidate would have after five years," or so say the CFRE guidelines. It doesn't assume expertise in any one area (so if you're not terribly familiar with planned giving, don't fret).
Let's make one thing clear straight away. Fund raisers don't need the CFRE designation. It's a voluntary credential, not a license like a certified public accountant would attain. I rarely see job ads requiring the CFRE stamp (at most, an employer might prefer it), and I've never been asked why, 13 years into my career, I don't have those letters after my name.
The whole shebang costs $550. Hirt says a recent survey revealed that employers covered costs for 70 percent of applicants. Members of organizations that participate in CFRE International need to pay only $385.
Hirt also points to salary surveys showing that CFRE's earn about 17 percent more than other fund raisers, although she concedes that those findings cannot take into account additional factors, such as individual motivation. In other words, the designation may reflect a certain drive that would lead someone to success with or without the credential. Hirt says she's seen an increase in job ads asking for CFRE's, and she suspects that in most cases a CFRE would have an advantage in the hiring process.
Collectively, members of CFRE International call themselves "stewards of the public trust." A lofty mission, to be sure, but what does it mean? Says Hirt: "The CFRE credential signifies an element of public protection. Fund raisers hold a great deal of public trust when they are soliciting donors for money. It's important that our standards safeguard that trust."
I tried the 10-question practice exam and found it more difficult than I'd expected. Some items are rather specific -- basic operating procedures -- while others capture subtleties appreciated by those with experience. Here's an example:
I posed that question to the executive director of CFRE International, Morgean Hirt. "The primary reason is personal achievement and satisfaction," Hirt says. "And by becoming a CFRE, you're supporting the development of your profession and helping it evolve to a new level of credibility."
Mark J. Drozdowski, director of corporate, foundation, and government relations at Franklin Pierce College in Rindge, N.H., writes a regular column about careers in university fund raising and development for The Chronicle.
Sweep aside philosophical underpinnings for now and let's focus on the nuts and bolts of becoming a CFRE. The process consists of three steps: a written application, an exam, and an agreement to uphold a code of ethics. Forget about the last item; it's essentially pro forma, assuming you've cleared the other hurdles.
According to Norma Walker, the council's vice president for professional development, CASE isn't likely to change its stance anytime soon. In early May, a subcommittee recommended that the council maintain its position regarding credentialing and that it should not consider the item again in the near future. "The idea that [the CFRE] credential establishes professional credibility is not one that this group could hold true," Walker says.
And the organization is international, although 86 percent of CFRE's live in the United States. Some 11 percent are in Canada, with the remainder in Australia and New Zealand. This year, the group is beginning a program in the United Kingdom.
Dawkins also noted that his committee was reluctant to endorse a credential that was relevant to only one slice of the council's membership. The organization represents all of educational advancement -- including marketing and communications, alumni affairs, and government relations -- and not just fund raising. "CASE is committed to the advancement field as a whole," Dawkins says, "and CFRE simply doesn't cover the breadth of professional scope that CASE focuses on."  Still, he says, the council will "continue to talk about certification."
(A word of advice: Don't fib on your application. Up to 5 percent of applicants are randomly selected to provide proof of stated activities. Good luck claiming high ethical standards if your materials are found rife with exaggeration.)
The CFRE literature echoes those sentiments, suggesting that the designation "demonstrates your commitment to your colleagues and your community," "recognizes personal and professional achievement," and "challenges you to excel on the job" and to "continue your training."
Walker did leave open the chance that discussions may continue at some point, adding that the subcommittee's recommendations have not been endorsed by the council's Board of Trustees. "CASE has not officially closed the door on the conversation," she says.
Under "performance," you earn points for having raised money or created fund-raising plans. Every $25,000 that you've raised equals a point.
Her organization, based in Virginia, has existed in its current form since 2001. The CFRE credential, which traces its roots to 1981, was administered by the Association of Fundraising Professionals (formerly known as the National Society of Fund Raising Executives) until 1997, when the group merged its credentialing program with that of the Association for Healthcare Philanthropy and created CFRE International, which then became a separate corporation four years later.
That's right: The Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE), the most visible and influential organization representing higher education fund raising, does not consider the CFRE credential worthy of endorsement.
The application documents your qualifications and experience. For each of four sections, you must attain a minimum score to become eligible. In the first section, "education," you receive a point for every hour that you have attended relevant conferences, workshops, and seminars. You need 80 points there.
It's a question many college fund raisers will face sometime in their careers: Should I become a certified fund-raising executive? For some, the answer will be easy. But others will struggle a bit with the decision, and perhaps seek guidance from people who've made the choice. That's where I currently stand.
The test's content spans donor research, securing gifts, building relationships, recruiting volunteers, management, and accountability. The organization offers an exam outline to familiarize you with what's covered, and provides a bibliography of relevant resources. Tests are administered about 30 times a year, most often at conferences or on college campuses.

Again, the exam, like the designation itself, is designed to assess your knowledge gained from years of practice; CFRE International suggests that you shouldn't cram for the test, nor does it endorse any "prep" courses claiming to ready test-takers. It does, however, advise wearing comfy clothes, setting your alarm clock, and avoiding an alcoholic binge the night before.
While she admits that most donors probably don't know much about the CFRE distinction, she does believe that governing boards have come to appreciate what CFRE's represent. "They know these people are dedicated professionals who have the institution's best interests in mind," says Hirt, who, oddly enough, isn't a CFRE or even a fund raiser (her background is in standard setting and test development).
According to one estimate, only 4,000 of the 25,000 members of the Association of Fundraising Professionals (AFP) -- representing a wide spectrum of nonprofit groups -- hold the credential, and only about 400 people a year join the ranks. Roughly 21 percent of them work in education; figures just for higher education aren't readily available. So if it's not required, or even widely subscribed, why get the credential?
The correct answer is B, though I'm not sure how it differs from A. I chose A, so there goes any hope for a perfect score. But if you get enough of these right, you're golden ... at least for three years, after which you'll need to recertify and relive this fun once again.
Without a doubt, the council's seal of approval would immeasurably bolster CFRE's standing among higher-education professionals. But that's apparently not looming on the horizon.
"Service" points are gained by volunteering in professional or community groups. But here's the kicker: You need 60 "professional practice" points, which equals five years of fund-raising experience.  So if you're new to development, you can't become a CFRE until you've logged five years.  That's why CFRE International doesn't consider itself a gateway to the fund-raising profession -- the credential validates experience and knowledge, not promise and potential.
And what are those organizations? Currently the list includes 13 associations representing the many countries in which CFRE operates. Big names like the United Way of America and the Council for Resource Development appear on the list. But the largest education association, one representing 3,200 institutions across the United States and Europe and counting more than 23,000 individual members, does not.
If your application passes muster on all counts, you'll be eligible to take the exam. You get four hours to complete 200 items, giving you a little more than a minute per question. The passing point changes from year to year; for a recent batch, exam takers needed 145 right answers to pass. On average, 72 percent of first-time test-takers pass the exam. Fail and you'll have to wait three months before trying it again.
So based on what I've learned thus far, I'm still on the fence. It's evident that I don't need the credential, but it can't hurt and it could prove useful. If nothing else, becoming a CFRE would demonstrate my commitment to the profession and say something to potential employers.
Is it worth the effort, though, and my current institution's investment? We'll see. In the meantime, I'm going to talk with several development colleagues, including those who have become CFRE's and those who adamantly oppose the credential. I'll let you know what they say in my next column.
Indeed, Young Dawkins III, president of the University of New Hampshire Foundation and chairman of the CASE's subcommittee on credentialing, said the council "respects the work that CFRE does in helping to advance the profession, but we could find no real correlation between certification and success in the field."
Hirt says that CFRE International enjoys an "open and ongoing dialogue with CASE leadership," and that her organization "continues to explore possibilities with them."