
This just in from Mr. Dave Gerard of Truffle: "Truffle is calling out to all faithful music-lovers to join them for the two final outdoor shows of the season! Well the first is actually on a boat; aboard the Thomas Laighton on Saturday, Sept. 18 from 7:30 to 10:30 p.m. Advance tickets are highly recommended, as our July show sold out early. Call (603) 431-5500, or visit www.islesofshoals.com. This show is not to be missed, big fun on the high seas of Portsmouth Harbor.
No insurance needed, they’re freelancers
Do the Truffle shuffle
Joe Rogers from Roundhouse tells us that Friday, Sept. 17 brings the blues band back to Slim’s Tex Mex in Rochester. "After a summer of mostly concert style appearances, we’re finally back in a club for a full night. This is where we like to be, because it gives us a chance to really let our hair down." Look for their signature 90 minute sets, where they give people a chance to work their legs.
Lastly, Simon says, "She has just produced and directed her first film, ‘Bush Bash: A New York Experience,’ in which downtown New Yorkers physically thrash an effigy of the putative president." Don’t worry, Beat Night, despite its somewhat putative name is a peaceful event.
Dream on
The Roadies will be bringing their uncut, uncensored and irreverent brand of Granite Rock to Le Bec Rouge on Hampton Beach on Friday, Sept. 17, with a 9 p.m. start. You’ll also get to check out some state of the art, top of the line, "Roadiecized" material the band has put together, even as it records its new full-length, live CD.
The Stone Church Web site has high hopes for its Saturday lineup of Jeremiah Freed with Chauncey and The Everyday Visuals.
Monday’s performance will feature writers Caitlin Watson, Kristen Hultsman, Young Dawkins and John Grady. (Look for Grady to possibly hang ten with a surf poem.) Joining Simon and Laurino will be Mata Hari bassist Frank Couture and local saxophone ace Matt Langley.
We managed to acquire a copy of the Jim Howe jazz news-letter, and here’s what’s up for Sunday Night Jazz at the Press Room when Ralph Norris performs with Howe’s trio. "Maine’s Ralph Norris is a superb tenor saxophone player with a style reminiscent of Getz and Zoot, hard swinging, very lyric and melodic. The energy on stage when Ralph is performing is always heartfelt by the listeners in the audience and the entire room swings. Ryan Parker will be playing piano this evening and Les Harris Jr. will be on drums. Ralph’s playing always makes for a great night. Don’t miss this one." The music runs from 6 to 9 p.m., and there’s a $7 cover.
Howe’s the jazz?
Saturday
If you value the bartenders’ opinions at the Press Room (and lord knows I do) then you’ll definitely want to hit Daniel Street on Saturday for the funk and jazz of the Freelance Bishops. And here’s some guy’s opinion from "The Isthmus" out of Madison, WI: "The Boston group delivers the soul-jazz sacrament for everyone who just can’t get enough of that funky stuff. James Brown’s JBs provide the rhythmic ideas, while everyone from Grover Washington Jr. to Coltrane influence the jam-friendly heads. Looks like booty time to us..." There’s a $5 cover.
Hit the Roadies, jack
"The Best Rock Bill to be Found in New England" they say and, "Rock fans, if you want to be able to say "I knew them when..." then come to this show. Really."
The show begins at 8 p.m.
Sunday
RollingStone.com has this to say about The Everyday Visuals: "…In a sea of bad cover bands and hard-core rock acts, [The Everyday Visuals] cut through this mess with soaring melodies and irresistible songs."
Can’t trust that day
Here’s news from Johnny Morse, "The final Smoke Up jOhnny show is this Friday, the 17, at the Stone Church. We’re one of the ‘special guests’ with Lemon Fresh Kids on the Church Web site... It’s been a good ride and we’re extremely grateful to Mssrs. McCoy, Ganley and Fuller for the opportunity to put the band to bed at the historic Church with one of our favorite local bands.
Chances are, if you’re a native of this area, you’ve heard of Jeremiah Freed the Maine band that blends classic 70s rock, with a bit of blues and a touch of modern influences. Formed in its sophomore year of high school, come graduuation, the band already had two local radio hits ("Again" and "How They All Got Here,") and a deal with Universal Records.
Smoke Up, over and out
A2MD combines poetry and spoken word with improvisational electronic music. Based on the highly successful Beat Night shows held once monthly at the Press Room, guitarist Larry Simon (Groove Bacteria) and drummer Frank Laurino (Beat Night band) will bring together some of the Seacoast’s finest musicians and writers in a truly unusual program.
Freed to be you and me
If you thought you’d seen the last of Larry Simon this month at the Press Room (how’d the Booker T & the MG’s, Nina Simone and Fela Kuti tribute go anyways?) then you’d be wrong. Simon and friends, often too numerous to mention, return for Beat Night on Thursday.
Friday
Truffle continued. . .
The MondayMen are headed to New York City, but they won’t forget their little city folk, either. Shawn from the band reports: "We are off to do a mini-tour to CBGB’S in New York City on Sept. 22...with a stop the next night in Providence Sept. 23. This is our first ‘out of town’ venture. This Saturday will see us at the Muddy River in downtown Portsmouth. We will be opening the night for our friends Museum Of Science!! this is former Fly Spinach Fly’s guitarist Jon McCormack’s band (ala Beastie Boy’s/modern funkadelic). The show starts at 9:30 p.m. ...get there early... this could be a doozy!! So...once again...you are expected to don your drinking shoes and wiggle and shake your way to the dance floor for this Saturday extravaganza!!"
Among her other Beat qualifications, Cohen has performed as a writer, comedienne and singer in New York City for 12 years, including the JVC Jazz festival. She’s a founding member of the Green Party of New York and a 9/11 Truth Activist. Simon says she was thrown out of the 9/11 Commission hearings for shouting "What about human rights in this country?" "God save the Constitution," and "How about more truth and less rhetoric?"
After a lengthy hiatus poetry jam band According To My Dream returns to the Press Room on Monday.
The beat is back
"The next day is the annual Highnote Festival in Epping. Truffle takes the stage from 2 to 3:30 p.m., and the Festival starts at noon, and goes until 6:30. Other musical treats are, Roomful Of Blues, and Mill City Ramblers. A great family friendly day, with craft vendors, face painting, and balloon rides. A beautiful setting on the McPhee Farm, Prescott Road off route 125. Hope to see you all there!"
And Simon says, this month’s Beat Night will have a special guest coning from NYC named Dana Lee Cohen.
With musical influences from rock and jazz to world music, and with poetry subject matter on just about anything imaginable, A2MD’s shows are guaranteed to be exciting and edgy adventures into sonic  improvisation.
Monday
Send your Scene & Heard snippets to J.L. Stevens at spotlight@seacoastonline.com.
Round and round
Dave Gerard’s insight continues onto Sunday: