
To create flexibility in accepting and administering gifts, 
              particularly more exotic ones. In addition to cash and securities, 
              foundations routinely accept gifts of privately held stock, 
              patents, gift annuities, and other offerings that may be less 
              attractive to somewhat conservative public governing bodies. They 
              also might engage in entrepreneurial activities to benefit the 
              affiliated institution.
Successful foundations have five features in common: a succinct 
              and comprehensible mission statement, enabling bylaws, an ongoing 
              director recruiting program, a concise but challenging long-range 
              plan, and a clear, if not comprehensive, working agreement with 
              the host institution. All but the operating agreement—at least in 
              draft form—fall under the purview of the start-up team, which 
              might grow in membership as the level of activity increases.
Given the strengths of a foundation, it’s hard to imagine why 
              any reasonable person would question its value, but many do. 
              Selling the idea of a foundation can be a challenging top-down 
              exercise designed to overcome campus skepticism and resistance to 
              change.
“Foundations are an incredibly important tool in a university’s 
              fund-raising toolbox,” says Gary Ransdell, president of Western 
              Kentucky University. “The absence or underutilization of a 
              foundation represents both lost opportunity and significant 
              financial resources left on the table,” he adds.
Creating—or recreating—a foundation might sound like a great 
              deal of work, but the effort is certainly justifiable in terms of 
              long-range outcomes.
Assuming the concept receives early endorsement and 
              encouragement at the governing level, the following four actions 
              can help foundation advocates shepherd the process toward 
              completion:
2. Expect resistance. There are some credible arguments 
              against the establishment of an affiliated foundation, chiefly 
              that the institution already has a professionally run development 
              office, making a foundation either redundant or unnecessary. One 
              compelling response is that the foundation board will consist of a 
              cadre of dedicated, influential volunteers who will materially 
              expand the staff’s ability to do its work.
Others might contend the institution’s alumni body is not large 
              or wealthy enough to provide major gifts to the institution. 
              Actually, any institution in existence for at least 30 years can 
              be a good candidate for an affiliated foundation. One percent or 2 
              percent of the alumni body will be doing just fine, and many of 
              these graduates will be prime candidates for the foundation’s new 
              or re-energized board.
The bylaws emanate from the mission, even if it’s still in 
              draft form. Today the trend is to construct bylaws that focus less 
              on restrictive language and more on enabling language that allows 
              the board to carry out the foundation’s mission with a minimum of 
              hindrances. Bylaws drafted today are far less likely to enumerate 
              staff prerogatives and responsibilities; they should maximize the 
              role of the board of directors and minimize that of any executive 
              committee. If the draft is more than seven or eight single-spaced 
              pages, the bylaws may contain far more information than is 
              essential. New foundations need not construct their bylaws from 
              scratch. The most common approach is to borrow liberally from the 
              bylaws of foundations at peer institutions. Most foundations will 
              happily share their governing documents upon request. Drafters 
              also should check with legal counsel to determine if a particular 
              state requires a standard bylaws format or specific kinds of 
              information. Sometimes templates are available for this purpose.
As Ransdell puts it, “What university president would not 
              welcome a group of influential, and at times wealthy, friends and 
              alumni who band together under the aegis of a foundation to 
              provide ongoing measures of enhanced excellence for the 
              institution?”
To ensure funds are used as donors intend. “Donors have 
              never before been as actively concerned with the integrity of 
              their gifts,” says Ball State University Foundation President 
              David Bahlmann. “They know that strong, active foundations are 
              effectively resistant to external politics and other campus-based 
              pressures of ‘need money now’ that could compromise a donor’s 
              original intent.”
“The only way to go is to go for the best,” says Wright State 
              University Foundation President Marcia Muller. “Figure out what 
              talents and skill sets you need for the tasks ahead, then match 
              those attributes with the very best among your alumni and friends: 
              women and men with wealth, influence, leverage, marketing skills, 
              and entrepreneurial backgrounds. The ultimate success is vested in 
              the quality of the board. Start out right, and you’ll never have 
              to look back.”
Few today would question that the creation of the UNH 
              Foundation in 1989 marked the turning point in private support for 
              the university or that the recent campaign more than validates its 
              existence. In 1989 the university’s endowment stood at $45.5 
              million. After 13 years in which UNH has had three presidents and 
              three interim presidents—and despite recent stock market 
              reversals—the combined endowments of the university and the 
              foundation now stand at $137 million. The UNH Foundation’s story, 
              though inspiring, is hardly an aberration on the fund-raising 
              landscape. Institutionally related foundations of all kinds are 
              creating similar successes for their respective institutions.
Since 1890 foundations have aligned themselves with 
              institutions where, for whatever reasons, the governing board does 
              not provide leadership in pursuing private support. Today as many 
              as 2,000 education institutions have affiliated foundations, not 
              to mention medical foundations and similar organizations 
              associated with other institutions. What is the principal impetus 
              for their creation? Foundation supporters might cite more than a 
              dozen, but the following five are the most prevalent:
Public institutions can advance further and faster with affiliated 
              foundations
Hearing this, some might ask, “Why not just recruit a committee 
              to help the development staff raise money?” The volunteers you 
              intend to involve are accustomed to the prestige of board 
              membership. They serve on bank boards, corporate boards, community 
              foundation boards, and the like.
The existence of a foundation does not automatically lead to 
              success. Bahlmann qualifies his aforementioned comments on 
              foundations with such terms as “strong,” “active,” and “good,” 
              while Ransdell explicitly cautions against the underuse of 
              foundations already in place. Whether an institution is 
              establishing a foundation or reengineering a less-than-productive 
              one, certain guidelines can help build in strength and stability 
              from the start.
To preserve donor confidentiality. As 501(c)(3) 
              nonprofits separate and independent from the public institutions 
              they support, foundations resist the argument that any information 
              located on a public institution campus is in fact “public 
              information.” Sunshine laws and other laws that govern access to 
              information at public institutions generally exclude foundations. 
              Although few foundations act in complete secrecy, they do keep 
              donor records and giving histories confidential, as well as 
              deliberations of their boards on matters of prospect 
              identification, cultivation, and solicitation, among other things.
4. Carefully select a start-up team. The volunteers you 
              select to assist with essential tasks related to foundation 
              creation likely will become the core of the foundation board. 
              Choose wisely.
On June 1, 2002, the University of New Hampshire officially 
              concluded its first-ever nine-figure campaign, two years ahead of 
              schedule and with gift and pledge totals exceeding $100 million. 
              The “Next Horizon” campaign receipts were five times greater than 
              those of the university’s only previous campaign, conducted in the 
              late 1970s and early 1980s.
Finally, some critics may cite negative publicity about alleged 
              misuses of funds by institutionally related foundations. 
              Occasionally such claims are justified, but rather than debate 
              whether a particular application of funds was appropriate in a 
              specific instance, foundation advocates can make three points: The 
              number of such instances is small compared to the universe of 
              foundations, such individual actions do not represent a blanket 
              condemnation of all affiliated foundations, and well-run 
              foundations have specific and defensible policies in place for the 
              allocation and use of foundation dollars.
This remarkable performance speaks in part to the great 
              popularity and fund-raising prowess of UNH President Joan Lietzel, 
              whose retirement coincided with the completion of the campaign, 
              and UNH Foundation President Young Dawkins III, who joined the 
              university in 1997 to lead the campaign. But another important 
              message resonated within the glamour and pageantry of the June 
              celebration: Dawkins announced that current and former members of 
              the UNH Foundation board of directors provided more than 40 
              percent of the campaign proceeds.
This article is from the November/December 2002 issue.
The next essential element is the cornerstone long-range plan. 
              The rule of thumb is that boards develop long-range plans with 
              staff assistance and the staff constructs annual business plans 
              (increments of the long-range plan) with board assistance. The 
              cornerstone plan relies heavily on extrapolations from the past 
              five to 10 years of fund-raising activity and corresponding 
              results: annual fund yields; endowment size and growth rate; the 
              number of endowed chairs, professorships, and scholarships; the 
              number and dollar value of deferred gift arrangements; and the 
              like. The extrapolations should estimate five years’ worth of 
              results in the absence of the new or re-energized foundation, but 
              more important, the anticipated greater performance with the new 
              leadership in place.
To build private support within an increasingly 
              competitive fund-raising environment. Often institution leaders 
              create a foundation for the sole purpose of stimulating private 
              gifts that respond to the identified needs of the host 
              institution. Campus CEOs and development officers come to realize 
              that the alumni body represents the greatest potential for giving 
              and that affiliated foundations are one proven way to involve and 
              solicit that constituency.
Crucial to the process is enthusiastic support from the 
              institution’s chief executive officer. Whether or not the notion 
              originates at this level, the campus CEO must carry the idea to 
              the governing body for review and possibly approval. A foundation 
              is by nature independent of the institution and can be created 
              without the approval of any other party, but an adverse position 
              by the governing board at the outset all but spells doom for the 
              fledgling idea.
1. Inform key players in the institution. Invite 
              foundation officials and peers from nearby similar institutions to 
              educate the administrative staff and academic leaders. With the 
              campus CEO’s blessing, enlist the help of the campus newspaper and 
              Web site. An article suggesting the institution is “investigating 
              the possibility of a fund-raising foundation” provides an 
              opportunity to extol the virtues of such entities and to cite the 
              achievements of others within an appropriate cohort.
Concurrent with the creation of a mission statement and bylaws 
              is the heart and soul of the foundation’s construction: board 
              recruitment. Nothing else is as crucial to the foundation’s 
              success because the foundation is people first and documents 
              second. The best mission, the most succinct bylaws, the most 
              carefully constructed plans, and the best operating agreements are 
              all but useless in the absence of the right people.
Because of the rather limited scope of a foundation’s 
              activities, the mission statement seldom needs to consist of more 
              than two sentences that are heavy on nouns and verbs and light on 
              descriptors and qualifiers. Begin with “The foundation exists to 
              …” and continue with “for the purpose(s) of ….” The drafters 
              usually can fill in the blanks within about 30 minutes, but that 
              does not lessen the mission statement’s importance. When 
              subsequently adopted by the foundation’s board, it becomes the 
              guiding principle behind all of the foundation’s activities, 
              policies, and other decisions.
Affiliated foundations can be valuable tools for public 
              institutions, enhancing fund-raising ability and providing, 
              through their boards, a means of creating closer relationships 
              with influential friends and alumni. The article provides 
              development staff with advice on the establishment of an 
              institutionally related foundation, including important steps such 
              as building on-campus support for the idea, developing a mission 
              statement and a long-range plan, and recruiting board members.
3. Be patient. The start-up process for a new foundation 
              can take from six months to two years, depending on the size of 
              the institution and the complexities involved in seeking approvals 
              and acceptance. The paperwork alone—creating and filing the bylaws 
              and articles of incorporation; filing forms 1023, 872-C, and 8718 
              with the federal government; and awaiting response for necessary 
              tax rulings—can encompass several months. Recruiting new board 
              members, if properly done, may require as much as a year.
In addition, Bahlmann says, “Donors are confident that the 
              foundation’s investment managers are paying attention to their 
              portfolios in times of volatility. Stability and trust are the 
              bywords of good foundations, and donors know it.”
The recruitment process must be free of artificial barriers 
              such as geography or alumni status. Selection must relate entirely 
              to mission. It’s not “Who do we know who would probably agree to 
              serve?” but “Who do we know—or who do we not yet know—who can 
              carry out the charge given to us?” Define board member selection 
              in terms of required skills and backgrounds, then match candidates 
              to those definitions.
To meaningfully involve accomplished alumni and friends 
              in the life of the institution. Public institution governing 
              boards are generally politically appointed, which means they are 
              hit-or-miss in terms of donor potential. Trustees of system boards 
              might not have an emotional attachment to any particular 
              institution. A foundation’s stature transcends advisory boards, 
              leadership councils, and honorary societies predicated on 
              cumulative giving levels. The foundation is an active entity with 
              a clearly defined focus, directed energy, and measurable outcomes.
CASE Currents article:
What if, when UNH first considered establishing a foundation in 
              1987, the administration and its core volunteers had decided it 
              was just too much trouble? It’s likely the university never would 
              have attracted someone to manage its campaign with the credentials 
              of Dawkins, who previously led Oberlin College’s $165 million 
              campaign and also distinguished himself as a fund raiser for 
              Dartmouth College. “As incoming president of the foundation,” 
              Dawkins says, “I had surrounding me two dozen of the university’s 
              most prestigious and accomplished alumni and friends, as well as 
              the continuing interest and support histories of other volunteer 
              directors that preceded them. This in-place volunteer core 
              suggested to me that the task ahead might not be as daunting as it 
              first appeared. The campaign totals bear out my belief. The 
              foundation’s volunteer leadership gave and they got.”
Finally, both the foundation and the institution it serves will 
              benefit from a well-devised working agreement that spells out the 
              fund-raising-related services the foundation will provide to the 
              institution and the corresponding services—such as payroll, 
              benefits, space, utilities, and budgetary support—the institution 
              will provide to the foundation. Again, the agreement need not be 
              constructed out of whole cloth; other foundations are usually 
              willing to share such agreements.
Another potential objection is that the foundation board will 
              compromise the prerogatives of the governing board or become a 
              “shadow cabinet” to the campus CEO. Well-constructed foundation 
              boards incorporate safeguards against such possibilities by 
              reserving ex officio slots for one or more governing trustees and 
              by limiting the foundation’s function to soliciting and managing 
              private dollars. These foundations do not set the private funding 
              priorities of the institution, nor do they make direct grants to 
              campus constituencies or individuals.