
Gregory Crane: Gardens and Vistas and Fantastical American Landscapes will open on Thursday, February 5 and run through Saturday, March 13. Located in a landmark townhouse, Hirschl & Adler Galleries is open Tuesday through Friday, from 9:30 a.m. to 5:15 p.m., and Saturdays from 9:30 a.m. to 4:45 p.m.


If you have any questions, or would like additional information, please send us an email by clicking on the name below:
Shelley FarmerDirector, Hirschl and Adler Modern
Hirschl & Adler Modern presents, Gregory Crane: Gardens and Vistas, an exhibition of paintings, drawings, and monotypes which will be Crane's first show with Hirschl & Adler Modern and will consist of work made over the last six years. Born in Bremerton, Washington, Crane often makes the lush, expansive landscape of the Pacific Northwest the subject of his work. Now living in Brooklyn, New York, Crane also finds this organic abundance in the more humble and contained space of urban neighborhood gardens.

The exhibit includes 12 larger landscape paintings created in the studio as well as smaller drawings and oil on panels produced in the field. Giving a sense of the artist's process, the studio works are developed from the on-site work, but they have clearly been transformed by the mind of a painter. The animated variety of form and shape, line and mark, and especially color that Crane sees in the world and expands upon in his paintings gives his work an exuberance that seems to embody life itself.
Accompanying Gregory Crane's exhibition will be a small complimentary show entitled Fantastical American Landscapes. Works from the Hirschl & Adler Galleries' collection by John Atherton, Ross Braught, Charles Burchfield, Thomas Chambers, Charles Howard, and Fredrick Sykes will be featured, among others.
Although Charles Burchfield, Arthur Dove and other American Modernists are often justifiably cited as Crane's art-historical predecessors, one could easily reference a wider range of expressive landscape painters through the ages, including Pieter Bruegel the Elder, Joseph Mallord William Turner, and Vincent van Gogh.