
Crane writes winning Peace Essay at ERHS
Crane researched the successful effort to install democracy in South Africa and the unsuccessful effort to do the same in Angola. He also researched the conditions necessary to install democracy.
Star News / Weekender 506 Freeport Avenue - Suite A		Elk River, MN 55330		Voice: 763-441-3500		Fax: 763-441-6401
Posted: 3/22/05
In Angola, there was no major industrialization and therefore no flood of European settlers, and three separate rebel groups of different tribal ethnicities emerged in the 1950s, resulting in a long civil war and little chance for a democratic foothold.
by Bruce StrandStaff writer
Gregory Crane’s five-page analysis of the difficulties of creating democratic government in many societies earned the Elk River High School junior first prize in the local competition of the National Peace Essay Contest.
The students in the 11th annual contest at ERHS were honored Friday in a ceremony at The Little Theater with the whole class and several parents on hand. The ceremony included cheery musical entertainment provided by class members.
A ceremony hosted by Fuller included a short address by Stewart Wilson, vice president of Bank of Elk River.
Shannon Wilsey received a $200 savings bond for second place and Christen Beckstrand received a $100 savings bond for third place. The seven honorable-mentions were Britta Lofgren, Signe Olson, Michael Rudquist, Kerry Soltis, Zachary Varty, Kristin Voltzke and Shannon Wilsey, who all received $50 bonds.
Writing, he said, is something “that I only do for Mr. Fuller’s class, because it always takes a long while for me to write something.” But his detailed and well-constructed analysis of this topic impressed all the judges.
“It’s always nice to see you kids display your other talents, too, in addition to your writing,” Fuller said to the group.
Top of Page
In his essay, he wrote about South Africa, where democracy came in stages — the white minority had it before 1920, with the black majority not invited into the process until the 1990s — and how the western (British) presence due to the diamond trade in the 19th century was crucial.
Democracy “cannot easily be incorporated into a nonwestern culture,” he wrote. “Unfortunately, most developing and third-world countries who lack a solid government are not Western cultures. In addition, most suffer poor communication due to multiple languages and low literacy rates. In simplest terms, most of the essential elements of a democracy are lacking ...”
Crane got on the piano twice, performing “Seaside Stride” solo and “Heart and Soul” in a duet with Beckstrand on flute. A third number was a vocal duet, “What is This Feeling,” by Lofgren and Katherine Wolf.
Students in Tom Fuller’s Advanced Placement English class wrote on this year’s topic, “Transitions to Democracy,” a timely issue considering the situation in Iraq. The 10 best were chosen by a three-person panel of educators.
This contest is sponsored by a Washington, D.C.-based group called United States Institute of Peace. All the local entrants (not just the prize winners) are submitted to the next level, the state contest. Fuller noted proudly that Elk River has produced four of the state winners in the first 10 years of the contest.
The bonds were donated by The Bank of Elk River, which has been the contest’s sponsor all 11 years.
Crane, whose essay was entitled “Creating a Democratic Society,” received a $500 savings bond for first place.
Crane, a National Honor Society member whose grade-point average is over 4.0, participates in cross country, Nordic skiing and track. He has played piano since first grade.