
Perseus’s purpose has changed over the years. Its original 
                key purpose was to create a resource of source materials that 
                was easy for their students to access. That purpose has been fulfilled 
                and remains, but another one has risen to take its place in importance. 
                The people of Perseus refocused their attentions on how Perseus 
                has been used since it went online. By understanding how audiences 
                use online digital libraries like Perseus, they hope to keep their 
                project not only up-to-date and useful, but also to learn something 
                about how people learn from hypertext.
Basically, Perseus is exceptionally searchable. Amazing, since 
                this program started long before search engines ruled the internet. 
                What this shows it the amount of thought that went into this work 
                before it ever touched a computer screen.
Mahoney, Anne, Jeffrey A. Rydberg-Cox, David A. Smith, and Clifford 
                E. Wulfman. Generalizing the Perseus XML document manager. In 
                Linguistic Exploration: Workshop on Web-based Language Documentation 
                and Description, Philadelpha, December 2000. http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/exploration/expl2000/papers/mahoney/mahoney.htm.
PERSEUS: Purpose & Research
Special Exhibits
                -Perseus regularly groups certain portions of their collection 
                into museum-like exhibits. They currently have one on Hercules. 
                It is a unique exhibit, because it contains a unique grouping 
                of material, some of which is unavailable on other parts of the 
                Web.
http://perseus.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/Herakles/

Reading support
                -Perseus includes both "automatic linguistic services for 
                multilingual and summarization services for multilingual and monolingual 
                readings" (Crane 8). This service is especially important. 
                

                For example:
                If I want to read Christopher Marlowe’s "On the Death 
                of Sir Roger Manwood" in its original Latin I can do that, 
                even if my Latin is atrocious. Out of Marlowe’s fourteen 
                line poem, only three words are unlinked to a Latin/English dictionary 
                entry. One of those three words is a name. All I have to do is 
                click on a word and a dictionary meaning appears in a secondary 
                window giving me the words meaning in context and were I can find 
                that Latin word in other Latin texts in Perseus and outside of 
                their databanks.
Models as Text
                What if you could search a picture the same way you search a piece 
                of text? Perseus researchers want to create, using XML, objects 
                that have enough embedded information in their code that they 
                can be searched (Milbank). So, if I want to see a Doric column, 
                I don’t just get pictures of Doric columns. I can get a 
                picture of a temple that has Doric columns. Ultimately, I’ll 
                be able to zoom in on the column, or separate it from the temple 
                completely for a better look .
Crane, Gregory. Designing documents to enhance the performance 
                of digital libraries: Time, space, people and a digital library 
                of London. D-Lib Magazine, 6(7/8), July/August 2000. http://www.dlib.org/dlib/july00/crane/07crane.html.
http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/
It’s FREE
                -There are other digital libraries out there on the Web, however 
                few of them are free. Most digital libraries, especially ones 
                of quality, make you pay a fee for full text articles or specialized 
                information. Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), for instance, 
                makes you pay 10 dollars per article if you are not a member (http://portal.acm.org/faq_dl.cfm?coll=portal&dl=ACM&CFID=13941031&CFTOKEN=79531107 
                ).
Crane, Gregory, Clifford E. Wulfman, Lisa M. Cerrato, Anne Mahoney, 
                Thomas L. Milbank, David Mimno, Jeffrey A. Rydberg-Cox, David 
                A. Smith, and Christopher York. Towards a cultural heritage digital 
                library. In Proceedings of the 3rd ACM/IEEE-CS Joint Conference 
                on Digital Libraries, JCDL 2003, pages 75-86, Houston, TX, 
                June 2003.
Or, how is Perseus a unique Web resource?
Since 1996: 
                -Perseus has hit the Web. It now “includes more than 225 
                Gigabytes of texts, images, maps, and indexes and garners 300,000 
                HTTP requests per day mainly at the Tufts site but also at European 
                mirror sites in Oxford and Berlin."
What do you add? What do you leave out? Perseus 
                gives advice based on their research.
                As far as antiquated collections go, add small. This doesn’t 
                mean add a small number of pictures; add pictures of things that 
                are small. Small things don’t receive the attention they 
                deserve in a museum setting because larger things catch the eye 
                quicker.. Coins are rarely noticed next to a suit of armor. Transversely, 
                large objects do not work as well on the Internet. A set of clothes 
                from NA Indians is not as eye-catching as a picture. Large objects 
                need live viewing, because the number of details for a larger 
                subject are limited in size to a computer screen on the internet.
Milbank, Thomas L.. Excavating the hard drive: Archaeological 
                research, XML, and 3D graphics. In 16th International Congress 
                of Classical Archaeology, Boston, MA, 23-26 August 2003.

-Seminar 
                Paper
-Gregory Crane is still the Editor-in-Chief of Perseus and he 
                remains highly active in that role. However, Perseus is no longer 
                a bunch of Classicists huddled around an old Mac. It requires 
                a full time staff that associates and discusses projects with 
                people around the world. Perseus also has three mirror sites (Chicago, 
                Berlin, and London), run by larger universities in those cities.

Bibliography
Thousands of Entries
                -There are thousands of original texts, typed in by professionals. 
                Secondary sources are linked to the primary ones and visa versa, 
                making Perseus more than just a repository for old manuscripts. 
                The secondary sources are written by reliable people from several 
                different areas of the world and in several languages (largely 
                German and French).
-By now the project had consumed enough time and energy the 
                department was ready to make some sort of monetary return from 
                it. A plan was laid to create a “CD-ROM package that contained 
                many of the primary readings and resources that students taking 
                classics courses would need and to make this package available 
                for the cost of one or two textbooks.”
Hypertext began: 1989, 
                -Apple Hypercard was used to form the actual text because it was 
                the most advance cataloging system of the time that would serve 
                their purposes.
Daniels, Maria. Is bigger better? web delivery of high-resolution 
                images from the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. In Proceedings 
                of Museums and the Web, 17-19 April 2000. http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/Articles/MW2000.html
What is Perseus?
Three core topics of research:
Planning began: 1985, 
                -A small team of classicists, led by Gregory Crane, wanted to 
                create a database of primary texts that would be available to 
                their students for class projects and research. They had no higher 
                dreams of world domination via the Internet. This was strictly 
                an in-department project for Tufts University.
The same help is given with ancient Greek texts like Aeschylus’s 
                Prometheus Bound (ed. Herbert Weir Smyth, Ph.D.), which 
                is entirely linked. Not only is it linked, but each the dictionary 
                also tells how many times Aeschelus used that word, how many times 
                that word is found in other famous Greek texts, and gives links 
                to those other texts within Perseus. So, if I click on "aterpês" 
                in Prometheus Bound the dictionary tells me Aeschylus 
                used that word twice and other authors used it seventeen times. 
                If I click on the "17" I receive the seventeen sections 
                of text where the word occures for other Latin texts. This particular 
                part of Perseus is the element most important to Hypertext discussions. 
                Not only is it unique to link each word of a text to a dictionary 
                entry, but the intertextuality of each link gives the work a deeper 
                and more useful quality for research.
PERSEUS: History
Mission Statement:
                “Our primary goal is to bring a wide range of source materials 
                to as large an audience as possible.”
Note: Dictionary linking is done only for primary texts. Secondary 
                resources are left unlinked if they are in a language other than 
                English.
Walking in London Town
                "One of our current research projects is to explore the extent 
                to which geographic visualization tools can help readers grasp 
                the complex temporal-spatial interactions that shape many (especially 
                historical) documents. For cultural digital libraries, time and 
                space are crucial categories of information. Our goal is to develop 
                a temporal-spatial front end for digital libraries, including 
                the Perseus project [1]. To accomplish this goal, we have developed 
                a testbed on the history and topography of London. The testbed 
                includes dense and precise quantities of temporal and geospatial 
                information embedded in texts, maps and images. We have been seeking 
                ways to disambiguate and link automatically the information found 
                in the collection" (Crane).

This is a summary of the history, purpose and 
                research of the Perseus Project.
Crane, Gregory R. (ed.) “Information about Perseus.” 
                The Perseus Project, http://www.perseus.tufts.edu, 
                November, 2003.
This 
                is part of an ongoing mission to understand and explore the ways 
                Hypermedia changes the way we think and learn.
Walk Down King William St. --
http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/image?lookup=Perseus:image:2001.07.0001
Product Released: 1989-1996
                -A CD-ROM version (Perseus 1.0) was produced and published by 
                Yale University Press in 1992 (now out of print) and a second 
                Macintosh version (Perseus 2.0) was made in 1996.
There is much more at: 
http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/Articles/MW2000.html
Technobabble -Trying to generalize the system for mass 
                consumption
                "One of the strengths of our document management system is 
                its flexible, modular display front end. We present texts in HTML 
                over the Web, but have also experimented with presentation in 
                XML and in Adobe's PDF. Readers can request display of a section 
                of a document, using the standard citation scheme for the text 
                if there is one (for example, book and line for Homer's Iliad, 
                or book, chapter, and verse for the Bible). The document system 
                identifies the desired section based on structural metadata provided 
                by the DTD mapping engine and converts it to display format based 
                on a template supplied by the corpus editor or digital librarian" 
                (Mahoney).
-Commercial encyclopedias as well as hundreds of syllabi at 
                universities and K-12 institutions around the globe link to Perseus. 
                A spin-off organization, Stoa, has been created to support research 
                and electronic publication for humanities scholars, and Tufts 
                university has begun to support the Perseus Digital Library as 
                part of its fixed annual budget. All of these things tell us that 
                Perseus is not a fly-by-night website, up today and gone tomorrow, 
                but a fixed resource.

1. How networked digital libraries serve established but also 
                reach new audiences
                2. The services that cultural heritage digital libraries need 
                to support
                3. The document structures that provide the basis for these services
Combining these last two features is not in the works, but I 
                think it would be a great asset to learning. If a child could 
                walk through a digital representation of ancient Rome with search 
                capabilities in each picture he/she could search for certain types 
                of buildings, which the computer could then take him to see. The 
                child/learner would then see the building in its original context.
Marchionini, G. (in press) "Evaluating Digital Libraries: 
                A Longitutidinal and Multifaceted View." Library Trends: 
                http://ils.unc.edu/~march/perseus/lib-trends-final.pdf.
Fall 
                2003