
When he began work on Perseus, Professor Crane was in the Classics department
  at Harvard University. One of his objectives was to help modern students understand
  the poetry of the Greek poet Pindar. Pindar was considered one of the greatest
poets of his era, which most of us find hard to understand.
This section examines the topic, how is digital information changing the methods
  of scholarship and research.
This will be a discussion class on the relationship between libraries
      and research. There is an inter-relationship between the structure of libraries
      and the form of research that they enable. New technology enables new forms
      of library and new forms of research. We need to consider
      what happens when the user of a library is a computer program, which is
      acting as agent for a researcher. Here are three examples:
Added Link: Clifford Lynch on the Minsky quote,
from 
"The Battle to Define the Future of the Book in the Digital World",
First Monday, volume 6, number 6 (June 2001)
Come to class prepared to give two short presentations (no more than five
  minutes) on: (a) the Humanities paper, (b) on one of the papers in
  the D-Lib Magazine special edition.
On Wednesday, March 29, Gregory Crane from Tufts University is giving
  a colloquium
   on the subject, "What do you do with a million books?" We will explore
   ideas that build on this seminar in the classes on Thursday, March 29, Tuesday,  April
4, and Thursday, April 13.
Before the class, skim these three examples. Can you find others?
Student summaries: here
Thursday, March 29: Short Presentations
In class, we will discuss the tools that Perseus provides to study texts,
such as these poems.
Tuesday, April 4: Appreciating Pindar
The problems go
  far beyond not being able to read classical Greek. To a modern audience, the
  subject and style of his poetry is puzzling: the subject of his work is
  commercially-oriented short poems praising contemporary or recent Greeks; the
  structure is convoluted and the images formulaic. How can we get away from
  our modern viewpoints and understand the cultural context in which Pindar
flourished?
Thursday, April 6: Changing Libraries, Changing Research
Before the class:
Home  Next-->
The center of Professor Crane's work is the Perseus
Digital Library.