
“It requires 
                a radical rethinking of history scholarship,” the Tufts professor 
                told the Chronicle. “There tends to be an ideological 
                distrust in academia of work that just anybody can understand.”
Academia is making a radical shift from paper to pixels, says a Tufts professor 
                who founded an innovative electronic archive.
From emailing 
                and texting professors to course chatrooms, it’s clear that the online 
                onslaught is having a growing impact on university life. But the 
                digital age is not only changing how professors teach – it's 
                also revolutionizing what constitutes research, who contributes 
                to history and the number of people who can access information.
MAIN Education Reference
As Crane told 
                the Chronicle, he hopes to be part of a scholarly environment 
                in which digitization projects in the humanities are undertaken 
                equally by professors, media corporations and “working class 
                guys, not self-considered intellectuals.”
This vision 
                of academics also blurs traditional lines regarding who can contribute 
                to history, and who can access it.
According 
                to Crane, projects like these, undertaken by both professors and 
                non-university affiliated individuals, are likely to reshape the 
                academic environment.
“When 
                you’re digitizing you think of yourself as adding value to 
                publicly accessible material,” Crane told the Chronicle. 
                “The focus is on the material and not on the monograph.”
“Crane 
                says that deans at Tufts make a point to take esoteric digitization 
                projects into account when evaluating professors for tenure,” 
                reported the Chronicle.
According 
                to Crane, Tufts is already contributing to realizing this vision 
                by encouraging projects such as his.
According 
                to the Tufts professor-- who is the U.S. leader of a European 
                Union/National Science Foundation working group on technology 
                and the humanities -- the new digitization process calls into 
                question long-standing tenets of university scholarship.
“I 
                think there’s going to be an intense reorganization of scholastic 
                labor and attention in the next generation,” Gregory Crane, 
                Tufts professor of classics, told The Chronicle of Higher Education. 
                “Historians won’t be building their work around the 
                assumption that paper-based projects are the be-all and end-all.”
According to a Tufts professor and founder of a cutting-edge electronic 
                archive, the digitization of scholarship will significantly change 
                the academic world.
“[Crane 
                says] scholarly personal-interest digitizers – and amateurs 
                who scan material, create Web databases, and compile links to 
                online resources – may be slowly changing humanities scholarship,” 
                reported the Chronicle. “By focusing their work on 
                scanning primary-source documents, such scholars and enthusiasts 
                are shifting their emphasis in their fields from analyzing documents 
                to simply making them available.”

Crane heads 
                the Perseus 
                Digital Library, the world's largest online database of Latin 
                and Greek texts and archeological finds – containing 6.5 
                million words of Greek text, 4 million words of Latin material, 
                more than 64,000 images and 3-D representations of ancient Greek 
                and Roman sites. The mission of the Perseus project – which 
                receives up to 420,000 hits a day from more than 75 countries 
                -- is to increase accessibility of primary and secondary source-texts, 
                and bring a wide range of materials to a larger audience.