
ìI always want to challenge myself,î said Crane. ìI always take advanced placement classes when I have the opportunity. I like to learn.î
ìIím fortunate to have some gifts. For academics, but not as an athlete,î acknowledged Crane, who nonetheless plugged away for 10 letters in running and skiing, and achieved his most cherished sports goal in his fourth year of trying.
Posted: 5/31/06
Nowak said she got into skiing very young because it is her dadís sport, and started to really enjoy the activity when she joined the school team. Her track career originated in sixth grade when the family added a golden retriever named Shep. ìSomebody had to take him out (for exercise),î she said, ìand it fell on me. So I started running, with the dog.î
ìPiano will always be part of my life,î declared Crane, who particularly enjoys Claude Debussyís impressionistic pieces like ìClaire de Luneî and the stylings of Lori Line and Jeanne Cotton.
ìI was not always as athletic as I am now,î she said. ìI was a chubby little thing.î
Mike Niziolek, a biology teacher and running coach, said itís been a pleasure have Crane as both a student and athlete.
ìI was upset about that,î said Nowak. ìIíve very competitive about everything.î
ìMy goal was to make the top seven on the ski team so I could compete in the big meets,î said Crane. ìIn ninth, 10th and 11th grade I was always the eighth man, which means Iíd be the alternate. Iíd always wax my skis, but knew I wouldnít race.î
ìThe first I heard about it was last fall when some other students said I had the top (GPA),î said Holcombe. ìI knew I wanted to keep it up, so I worked hard in class all year. Iím proud of it.î
ìIíve been a skier since I could walk,î said Holcombe. ìMy family goes on ski trips, to Montana and Utah.î
Christina Nowak RogersWith 36 ACT, she stands out even among valedictorians
ìBeing valedictorian, and being able to ski, those are the two biggest things,î said Holcombe. ìItís really cool to be on a team.î
ìI had taken the ACT in October and got a 33,î said the ever-competitive Nowak, also a two-time all-stater in Nordic skiing. ìI didnít finish all the questions, so after that, I figured a 36 was in reach. I just wanted to see if I could get a 36.î
The ACT grills college seniors in math, science, English, reading and writing. Evidently Nowak learned well at Rogers.
world history, one of Holcombeís favorites. ìHe asks plenty of questions and really gets discussions going.î
HometownSource.com
ECM Publishers, Inc.
				4095 Coon Rapids Blvd.
				Coon Rapids, MN 55433
Steve Holcombe ï ZimmermanCountry youth embodies can-do spirit
But her crowning moment came at the ACT testing in April of her junior year.
ìItís kind of a problem that Iíve had so many good teachers here, and Iíve picked up so many interests,î said Crane. ìIíll be starting college undeclared. Iím fairly gifted in math, but Iíve enjoyed a lot of classes. I took an art history class that was really good, and biology, too, and theyíre entirely different subjects.î
Nowak, also a National Merit Scholar and RHSís Triple-A winner, has a calm, confident and low-key demeanor, but doesnít deny being a bit driven. She pushes herself to excel in academics, athletics and arts.
ìI got to race at the conference and section, and when we won the section, I got to race at state, too,î Crane said. ìThat meant so much to me. My goal there was not to finish last, and I did beat a few guys!î
In fact, the piano is probably the youngsterís most abiding passion. He started in first grade.
Youíll seldom see Holcombe without a smile. He wrings a lot of enjoyment out of all his endeavors whether heís successful or not. In football, he lettered three years but never started. Coach Dave Hamlin said he kept trying to find a position for him.
Everything includes a wide range of pursuits. She sings in choirs and plays flute in the band. Sheís earned superior awards at the sectional for vocal music solos and groups. Though slight of physique, Nowak is a very physical person, with nine athletic letters as an endurance athlete, distance running and skiing. Skiing with Elk River, she placed 17th overall at the state meet as a junior and 13th as a senior, including sixth in her specialty, the skate race.
The son of an air-traffic controller and a stay-at-home mom who does some substitute teaching, Crane said one profession that intrigues him at this point is teaching, ìbecause the ones who are good at teaching really seem to enjoy it.î But he said heís a long way from deciding.
ìIím not a Zach Varty, I just compete in other ways,î said Crane, referring to a close friend whoís a star runner and skier and just happens be No. 2 in the class as well.
Greg Crane ï Elk RiverSweat, and sweet music, among his passions
This winter, all those miles paid off as he earned the No. 7 slot on a team that finished fifth in the state.
Christina Nowak has established a lofty goal for herself: becoming a doctor. If her high school stats are any indication, Nowak will likely achieve anything to which she aspires.
A Dayton resident, she is the oldest of four children of Tom, a computer engineer, and Mary, an parochial elementary school teacher.
Thereís a Bible passage about the virtues of making a joyful noise unto the Lord. ERHSís valedictorian seems to embrace the spirit of that verse in every class, every race, every song.
He will attend Minnesota-Duluth, where the campus, not coincidentally, is located five minutes from the Spirit Mountain slopes. He hopes to make the ski team there.
Top of Page
Along with academics and skiing, Holmcombe made his mark impressively in music. Playing trombone, heís been all-conference in concert band and jazz band each year since seventh grade, said director Tim Smith. He got ZHSís John Phillip Sousa award and was its male triple-A (arts, academics, athletics) nominee. He also collected three scholarships and was named Student of the Year.
Same in sports. Though Crane was always back in the pack in varsity races, he loved the fellowship established while running and skiing hundreds of miles with longtime friends, and savored the pursuit of lifetime bests and personal goals.
Nowak scored a perfect 36, a feat far beyond even most valedictorians. According to Wipikedia, only about 250 students nationwide achieve a 36 each year. Just one percent score as high as 31.
ìIt was never a competition for me,î said Crane. He expressed great respect for his fellow students: ìEvery class Iíve had, Iíve looked around and thereís always been someone better than me at that subject.î He added that his primary goal is ìto be a compassionate personî like his parents.
ìGreg is diligent, hard-working, and extremely polite,î assessed Niziolek. ìHe has put his mind to being a very good individual. For him to make that top seven, and get down to five minutes in the mile, are tremendous accomplishments. Heís proof to younger kids that hard work and determination go a long way.î
Crane, also a devoted pianist and an active member of his church, earned a 4.155 grade point average to rank No. 1 among 405 seniors. He scored 32 on his ACT, which puts inside the top 1 percent.
by Bruce StrandStaff writerStar News
Asked if finishing first in his class was an objective, Crane shook his head.
In the race that will count the most for him, Gregory Crane stayed in front the whole way.
But heís still very goal-oriented with regard to stretching his own boundaries.
At the Church of St. Andrew, Crane serves as cantor, sings in the choir and sometimes accompanies on piano. He also accompanies the school choir occasionally, and had a piano solo in last Tuesdayís spring concert.
The cheery, can-do, confident attitude that Holcombe displayed in seeking out a ski team has served him well in all school endeavors, especially academics. His 4.138 grade point average is No. 1 among 105 ZHS graduates and gives him a great start in his quest to become a veterinarian.
A decidedly outdoorsy farm kid, Holcombe was equally elated that he was able to maneuver into an Alpine ski team.
The No. 1 student among 238 in Rogers High Schoolís class of 2006 earned at least and ìAî in every class throughout high school and compiled a 4.12 grade point average, 4.0 being straight Aís.
Academically, Crane is all over the map with regard to classes he enjoys, and of course pulls down Aís in all of them.
She likes to get her knees and heart pumping strongly right away every day, riding bike to school whenever itís nice enough. As longtime jockette, it makes her chuckle a bit to remember that the last time she didnít get an ìAî was in physical education, of all things, way back in grade school.
ìSteveís not a real good athlete, but he worked so hard every day, he knew the whole playbook,î said Hamlin. ìAnywhere you put him, he always knew what to do, although he may not do it well. A lesser person, being a senior and not starting, would have quit, but he never gave it a thought. I will miss him, thatís for sure.î
Asked whatís been her favorite subjects, Nowak said sheís enjoyed Mrs. Weberís classes the last three years, especially the freewheeling literature discussions, and Mrs. Statenís human anatomy class ìbecause I think I want to go into that field. I want to be a doctor.î
But it had to be downhill racing. He could easily have joined Elk Riverís Nordic team but he said he has no interest in cross country skiing.
ìSteven has the highest cumulative GPA in ZHS history,î noted Bruce Powers, assistant principal. ìHis lowest grade in high school was an A-minus, and this is with a class load of AP English, AP history, AP calculus, and chemistry. He is a young man of the highest integrity, character and self-discipline.î
Gregory is the son of Curtis and Debra Crane. He has an older brother, Matthew, and younger sibs, Collin and Emma. Matt recently graduated from St. Thomas, on the way to becoming a priest. Gregory, whoíll also attend St. Thomas, said he regards Matt as ìa faith guide for meî and a role model.
Otherwise an eager but mediocre athlete, in football and track, Holcombe is pretty good at skiing from all those years on the slopes. He placed 17th at the section meet among 98 kids his senior year.
So soon after classes began at the new Zimmerman school three years ago, he started working on finding a school team. With a lot of help from his dad and from Jeff Downing and Wendy Borrett in the school activities office, Holcombe was able to attach to Chisago Lakes that winter. Heís worked out with them for three years at Wild Mountain while competing as a one-man Zimmerman team. Banging up his knee by hitting a flag in 10th grade did not faze him; fortunately the injury was all bone and not ligaments, and he bounced back.
ìIíve really enjoyed high school,î said Holcombe. ìBut I am excited to be moving on.î
Nowak was accepted at Harvard but will stay close to home and attend College of St. Benedict, majoring in pre-med and biology and suiting up for the Nordic ski team.
In track this spring, after two years of straining to get under five minutes in the 1,600 meters, he got down to 5:00 twice, then finally busted through to 4:56 at Thursdayís conference meet.
Earning the valedictorian honor is one of the two most satisfying achievements for Steve Holcombe during his high school years at Zimmerman.
ìSometimes when Iím supposed to be studying,î he said, ìIíll walk by the piano and sit down for just one song ... and wind up playing for a half an hour. Itís just very relaxing and really brings me pleasure.î
A willowy 6-footer who maxes his talents whether they are lavish (academically) or limited (athletically), Crane has captured the valedictorian honor for the Elk Riverís class of 2006.
It rankled her to be temporarily listed at No. 2 in the class during her sophomore year, due to a glitch in the way the rankings are calculated.
ìMatt is always optimistic, always willing to go the extra yard, thatís the key,î said Matt Krause, who teaches
ìChristina is hardworking, persistent, inquisitive, and very intelligent coupled with a strong drive to do well,î said Gail Weber, her advanced placement English teacher. ìAnd she is very humble.î
Steve is the son of Dwight and Diana Holcombe, and has an older brother, Joshua. The Holcombes grow soybeans and corn east of Zimmerman. They formerly had dairy cattle and then Angus (beef). Proximity to cattle and farm cats helped Steve figure out heíd like to take care of animals for a living.