
Tim O'Reily describes Web 2.0 as harnessing the collective wisdom and
          activity of the masses. Library Thing (LT) applies this principle to the
          public's love of reading, and to the the networked libraries and bookstores
          that support it. LT's simple search box points to Amazon, but Z39.50 allows
          searching across multiple library catalogs as well. The database includes 7.2
          million user-tagged catalog records (of which many are duplicates) and 87,000
          book reviews. By contrast, she suggests, tagging on Amazon has been anaemic,
          because it's like "volunteering to fluff pillows at the local Sheraton". With
          LT, users get to shape and personalize their own catalogs, and, because the API
          is made available, they can create their own derivative applications. Another
          important part of its success has been a low barrier to participation. The
          single requirement for a free account is establishing a unique username and
          password.
Today mostly trying to sell us on Primo, i.e., Ex
          Libris's answer to MediaLab's AquaBrowser
          and Endeca's Information Access
          Platform . Application of Gresham's Law to
          cataloging: Cheaper or quicker will generally prevail over more expensive or
          slower. There is a Kulturkampf raging between administrators and Technical
          Services staff, as evidenced in Karen Calhoun's position papers, LC's series
          tracing decision, University of California's "Rethinking how we Provide
          Bibliographic Services ...", OCLC's "Perceptions of Libraries
          and Information resources", animated discussion on the NGC4LIB discussion
          group, and Jeffrey Beall's recent comment in LJ ("Stop the war on
          metadata"). Kaplan believes that the fight is over. Since at least 2001,
          the demand for human-generated metadata has declined while "full-text is
          king".
Open URL link resolvers such as SFX, federated searching (e.g., MetaLib),
          digital asset management systems (e.g., Digitool), Electronic Resource
          Management systems (e.g., Verde), are growing in importance. ." Cites "The Future of
          Integrated library Systems" by Marshall Breeding,
          who asserted that the ILS, after having matured over 2 decades, reached a
          crisis around 2000, as it remained overly fixated on print resources. Also, as
          Roy Tennant has put it, "Librarians like to Search, but users like to
          find."
Users are able to assign tags, find resources using tags, write
          long annotations, share links, annotations, and tags, and have annotations
          displayed within OPAC and PennTags pages. Students use PennTags create simple
          bookmarks and annotated bibliographies as class assignments, librarians to
          prepare research guides, while enthusiasts create "shadow catalogs", such as
          the 700 items identified as relating to 20th century classical music in
          cinema.
Presenter: Abby
          Blachly, head (and only) librarian at librarything.com.
Idea of "incunabula"
          is that a new publishing medium starts off by imitating the old, e.g., the
          printed book at first mimicked the manuscript codex. (Interestingly, the
          incunabulum Gutenberg Bible featured moveable type but also hand-crafted
          illuminations that subverted the productivity gains of the new technology.)
          Today, a good example of incunabula is the PDF file which is designed to look
          (and largely function) like a printed book. The post-incunabula Web, however,
          tries to separate data from presentation. It supports recombinant dynamic data
          elements, and prefers open-source over locked-down code, and features books
          that can "talk to one another".
My question: You began by suggesting that the library community can
          never catch up with Google, but then went on to say  we should purchase
          Primo or something similar in order to stay competitive. Aren't you
          contradicting yourself? Wouldn't it make more sense simply to incorporate
          Google applications where ever they outperform library-specific ones? At the
          same time, shouldn't we participate in open source software movement in order
          to supplement the small number of developers employed by library system
          vendors? Also, shouldn't libraries be focusing their energies where we really
           have a competetive edge, namely, educational mission, access to
          authoritative information, commitment to intellectual freedom, and market
          ourselves accordingly? Despite what it's literature says, Google's mission is
          to turn a profit for shareholders (witness their willingness to censor
          information in China). This doesn't make Google evil, but it should remind us
          that we occupy a very different niche in the information economy. Kaplan
          responded that "libraries have the moral high ground; Google has the
          technological high ground"; and libraries need to be credible in both areas.
          So, I'm not sure he understood my question. To be fair, though, since he
          represents a for-profit vendor, he may not be able to identify himself fully
          with the non-profit, educational perspective I was suggesting.
Flattered audience by saying that "the one thing that librarians do really
          well is cataloging," and is reluctant to meddle in this activity, but
          "cataloging data is essential" to what he wants to accomplish.
Recommends Hinchcliffe's (web2.wsj2.com)
          10 ways to take advantage of Web 2.0: (1) encourage social contributions with
          individual benefit; (2) make content editable whenever possible; (3) encourage
          unintended uses; (4) provide continuous, interactive user experiences; (5)
          offer content as feeds and/or web services; (6) let users establish and build
          on their reputations (best example: slashdot.org); (7) allow low-friction
          enrichment of information; (8) give users right to remix; (9) reuse other
          services aggressively; (10) build small
          pieces loosely joined (cf: David Weinberg book title).
Why tags rather than LC subject headings? A year after event, "Hurricane
          Katrina" still not in LCSH [is that true?]. By contrast, an LT tag cloud begins
          forming immediately. This isn't to say that LCSH is unimportant, and LT in fact
          supports it.
PennTags has not officially been released to the public, and Allen looks
          forward to an upcoming marketing campaign within university, collaboration with
          other universities, and development of an instrument to measure influence.
          Future releases to include DOI support, image functions, output integration to
          other library resources, export to delicious, Endnote, rtf, Refworks, Bibtext,
          etc., an open access API, export option in RDF, and better data mining
          capability.
Current library OPAC is "Web 1.0 in every way", i.e., not very customizable,
          attractive, extensible, or accommodating of user-driven improvements. Feels the
          same way about library Web sites. Wants people to remember that the OPAC and
          Web site are the library's public face.
Suggestion for getting "beyond the website" include: (1) designing for
          innovation, e.g., by using and releasing APIs, encouraging community
          development and lowering barriers to user and staff creativity, reaching out to
          potential partners such as local library schools, and education; (2)
          recognizing importance of "gadgets" in users' lives, including IPv6, cell
          phones, PDAs, PMPs, PGDs, smart homes, smart cars, and remembering that
          "knowing technology means knowing how to take advantage of it"; (3)
          incorporating services such as Google books/maps/gadgets, Amazon, Greasemonkey, etc. (Blyberg used Google Gadgets API,
          for example, to sort titles by popularity, etc., and mash-ups that combine AADL
          records with Google Book images). Byberg disputes that we're in competition
          with Google, but maintains that even if we were, we have competitive edge
          insofar as we really know our communities.
Crane stressed the importance of "named entity analysis" whereby a block of
          text is auto-tagged, and place names mapped against Getty's Thesaurus of
          Geographic Names (TGN) and Google Maps. Translations can be done on the fly
          through automated extraction and pairing of blocks of original text with blocks
          of translation text.
The new OPAC needs to meet people where they are, rather than expecting them
          to come to us. Example: virtual catalog cards
          that allow readers to write marginalia, and deposit personalized cards in their
          personal collection. Don't underestimate the ingenuity of patrons. Give them
          more control over library tools, and see how they develop them. Then
          incorporate the best of these new developments into general system.
Could something similar be set up at Yale using Voyager and Sakai?
Given access to API, could certain features be lifted out of the full
          program and incorporated into, say, a Voyager environment? E.g., potential use
          as recommendation engine?
Presenter: Laurie Allen, chair of PennTags Development Team (1 librarian, 1
          programmer) and Social Sciences Data Services Librarian at UPenn's Van Pelt
          library.
Presenter: John Blyberg, Systems
          Administrator and Lead Developer for Ann Arbor
          District Library (AADL) . Recognized by Library Journal as 2006 "Mover
          & Shaker".
Given that most users have free accounts (i.e., the version usable for up to
          200 titles), I asked about cost-recovery. Abby explained that in addition to
          the membership fees from heavy users, they have recently received venture
          capital.
Presenter: Michael Kaplan, Digital Products
          Technical Support Director at Ex Libris. Prior to 2000, Associate Dean of
          libraries and Director of Technical Services at Indiana University,
          Bloomington. At one point served as chair of PCC and Big Heads.
How should we respond, when events always seem to overtake the profession.
          Vendor community is too small to compete with Google, and implement new
          technologies in a timely manner. Some bright spots though. Major 2006 milestone
          was OCLC exposing library data on Web through OpenWorldCat.org. Presentation
          and social networking functions also getting better.
Regarding "dynamic data", Crane used to disparage Wikipedia, but now marvels
          at its capacity for self-policing and correction. Though professional academics
          are traditionally skeptical about this kind of thing, amateur historians and
          genealogists turn out to be exactly the kinds of people you want scrutinizing
          your data (e.g., disambiguating place names identified through automated TGN
          matching--see below).
Presenter: Gregory Crane, editor in chief of the Perseus Digital Library at Tufts,
          currently administering $2.7 million grant from Digital Library Initiative.
          According to the bio sheet, "His current research focuses on 'computational
          humanities' and how this new field can help to democratize information without
          compromising intellectual rigor."
The most important feature for a  2.0 OPAC is relevancy ranking, Kaplan
          suggests. Other key elements include faceting, clustering, FRBR display, social
          tagging, and recommendations. In order to optimize these features, the user
          experience must be "decoupled" from back-office functions, i.e., data creation
          and maintenance from discovery (slide 62).
dsl 11/06
I asked about copyright protection of licensed resources that were tagged
          and then exported. Allen answered that only the tags and URLs get exported.
          Anyone trying to open a linked resource would still need to be authenticate as
          a licensed user.
Conclusions: librarians are central to these new developments, and
          opportunities to contribute are vast. There is an especially great need for
          authority lists and other forms of disambiguation. He mentioned CIDOC-CRM (International Council of
          Museums International Committee for Documentation Conceptual Reference Model),
          FRBR, MODS as key resources. Sustainable cataloging in era of scarce labor will
          require Wikipedia-like collaboration plus automated analysis. Let machines to
          most of the analysis and mapping, and let human experts set the algorithms and
          tweak the results. The larger community can also contribute their interests and
          experience to building up the knowledge base.
Recombinant data requires a substratum of structured metadata. Crane's work
          requires use of metadata not normally found in library catalog records, e.g.,
          native citation scheme such as chapter numbers. Perhaps catalogers should be in
          the business of providing such detail, since they prove especially useful in
          systems interoperability. In the humanities, native citation schemes are
          extremely important for collocating various editions along with secondary
          sourcess.
The idea of books talking to one another was suggested in the artificial
          intelligence work of Marvin
          Minsky. What Crane is discussing is less futuristic but extremely useful.
          He demonstrated for example, a context-sensitive dictionary of morphological
          anaylsis that pops up while reading a Greek text in the Perseus database.
Interesting features include the identification of prospective "soul mates",
          i.e., members determined through machine matching to have book collections most
          similar to your own; a portrait gallery composed of user-submitted author
          images; an interface translated by volunteers into 30 languages, and a communal
          form of authority control whereby users submit commands to "Combine" and
          "Separate" access points.
At least one cultural heritage institution has adopted LT as its official
          OPAC: New York's Museum of Comic Art
          uses it to display its 1,040-title book
          collection.
PennTags employs Oracle, bookmarklets, javascript, "triplets" (RDF?), HTML
          & RSS output engines, and AJAX laid on top of catalog results. Every
          PennTag page is also an RSS feed.
Currently the system is optimized for books, but work is underway to support
          other media more effectively.
Fundamentals of Library 2.0 Web design include: (1) single sign-on; (2) open
          standards (vendors need to move more quickly on this); (3) OSS (philosophically
          the right thing to do, i.e., managing access to our own data); (4) integrated
          OPAC; and (5) social software.